Review History for Learning structural bioinformatics and evolution with a snake puzzle [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Learning structural bioinformatics and evolution with a snake puzzle To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 30th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 2nd, 2016. The first revision was submitted on October 21st, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 31st, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Rahul Shah
·
Oct 31, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
We appreciate your efforts in clarifying the scope and contribution of these project in terms of teaching. Thank you for the clarifications provided.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 21, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Rahul Shah
·
Sep 2, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The paper, although not a traditional scientific contribution, has a significant importance for teaching. Several of reviewers liked the submission on that basis. If the comments from second reviewer can be addressed in some way, that would be great.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 2, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The content of this paper is well organized and the text is clearly written. However there are some typos, which could benefit from a proofread. I have only two minor comments about the figures: Figure1 could be dissected into 3 parts and labeled as "a","b","c". a) maximally compact conformation, b)intermediate conformation resembling a protein hinge, c) linearly arranged conformation resembling intrinsically disordered regions. Figure 2 needs y axis label.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors are describing a methodology for teaching graduate students "protein folding and evolution" with the help of Snake Puzzle analogy, which they have been using in their Master course at Universidad Autonoma de Madrid. They provide sufficient information to reproduce their method.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The proposed game/method to enhance the teaching practice is sound and robust. I believe that the students coming from different backgrounds will benefit from this paper.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Learning structural bioinformatics and evolution with a snake puzzle (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.100v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 6, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper designed a snake puzzle to teach students the protein folding problem. The puzzle is similar to the e lattice models of protein structures. The puzzle is interesting. However, many parts of this paper are just reintroduction of the existing knowledge, such as RMSD, structure alignment, protein structure classification, etc.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
From the abstract and introduction, the authors claims that to design teaching basic concepts of protein folding with the snake puzzle. However, the major of the paper is presenting the common concepts in the protein folding and relevant area. The experimental design is loosely related to the topic claimed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
There are three problems that the authors might want to address in this paper. First, the authors may want to design the a puzzle to help teaching protein folding. Second, the authors may want to solve the puzzle. Third, the authors may want to solve the protein folding problem under lattice model. In any case, the authors should state clearly which problems to be addressed, and how the paragraphs are related to these problems. In addition, the commonly known paragraphs can be shorten, and references can be added. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Learning structural bioinformatics and evolution with a snake puzzle (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.100v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Wing Kai Hon ·
Aug 31, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This paper proposes a working unit to teach a course about protein folding and evolution. The authors proposes to use a wooden snake puzzle as a starter, where various concepts on combinatorics, modeling, folding, alignment are introduced, and related software in the literature can then be applied to solve a problem. After that, other concepts like evolution model and related statistical analysis are developed. This working unit has been used in teaching a master course with students of inter-disciplinary background.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The description of the working unit is very detailed, and interesting. I believe this working unit is suitable for a master course as suggested. The only thing I am concerned is how to test the relative effectiveness of using this working unit, as opposed to other ways (such as: teaching the same topics, but working directly with real data instead of the snake puzzle).
Comments for the author
The paper is generally well-written. There are some potential very grammatical mistakes that the authors may wish to go through the whole manuscript carefully, such as: Line 50: "... that help bridging the gap ..." --> "... that help bridge the gap ..." ? Cite this review as
Hon WK ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "Learning structural bioinformatics and evolution with a snake puzzle (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.100v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 30, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
