Review History for Finding melanoma drugs through a probabilistic knowledge graph [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Finding melanoma drugs through a probabilistic knowledge graph To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 27th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 21st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on December 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 27th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Yonghong Peng
·
Dec 27, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Very useful extension has been made on the revision. A proof-reading is needed for the final publication. Re-editing of the figures 4 and 7 is recommended to fit better with the main text.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Yonghong Peng
·
Jun 21, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The work itself is very interesting, but the paper can be much improved. Please extend the paper considerably by providing the details on the methodology, and a deep discussion on the results (computationally and biologically). Also provide justification on the selection of parameter on the data analytics - please refer to the reviewer's comments / requirements on this.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 21, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript proposes an integrated network analysis system to detect novel drug-disease associations. Various drug and disease related data sources were integrated and a probabilistic measure to evaluate the reliability of medical entity links was utilized. Several high quality melanoma drugs were generated and evaluated by recent literatures. Due to the complicated underlying network mechanisms of disease phenotypes and the perturbation of drug treatment, it is difficult to find and confirm novel drugs for disease treatment. This manuscript do provide an interesting computing approach to find novel drug candidates for complex diseases.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This manuscript focuses on proposing a complex network analysis system for novel drug detection for disease treatment. The authors have introduced the related data sources, data fusion and network visualization functionalities. An instance on novel melanoma drug detection is introduced and evaluated on the reliable and novelty.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The performance of the generated results from the network analysis system has been evaluated by the measures like precision, recall and F1 measure and the results showed that the system has obtained acceptable performance. Furthermore, 25 detected melanoma drugs were validated by related literature as well as a search for registered clinical trials in ClinicalTrials.gov.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This manuscript describes an integrated network analysis system on drug-target-disease associations to predict novel repositioning drugs. It integrated various drug and disease related data sources, such as drug-target associations, genotype-phenotype associations and protein-protein interactions and proposed a probabilistic approach to define the direct and indirect associations between these entities. The platform consists of a graphical web application, an application programming interface (API), and a knowledge base. The knowledge graph was stored in semantic web schema and it can be visualized as interactive networks using social network packages. The system has acceptable performance on predicting novel drugs for diseases and, In particular, the platform has generated 25 high quality Melanoma drugs, which have been cross evaluated by literature query and clinicaltrial.gov database. Therefore, this is a very interesting study that has delivered meaningful and biological useful results on novel drug indication prediction. Overall, an excellent work on network pharmacology. The minor improvement would be that a clear description on the calculation of 'joint probability' should be provided possibly in Section 4.2. Currently, there is only introduction of the principle to set the weights on direct links. However, the weight(or probability) of the indirect links(i.e. drug-disease) is a key development of the proposed system and thus should be described. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Finding melanoma drugs through a probabilistic knowledge graph (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.106v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 20, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The structure of the paper looks reasonable. The paper is easy to follow.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The goal of the paper is to use an evidence-based (in the form of probability) knowledge graph to help identify novel and known drugs for melanoma. The probability is computed based on so called expert-driven measures of the reliability of experimental methods that come from existing studies. In order for other to reproduce the results, it is necessary to provide the detailed formula for computing and combining the mentioned measures, in the final draft of the article. Also, little justifications were provided to the rather high probability (0.95) for the second confidence level.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The presented knowledge graph uses 5 data sources: iRefIndex, DrugBank, UniProt Gene Ontology Annotations, the Online Mendelian Inheritance in 168 Man and the COSMIC Gene Census. Associations are represented as ontology based linked data. However, it is unclear how such associations are captured. Some important justifications are still missing, including the two thresholds of interaction steps (3) and joint probability value (0.93).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The paper presents a seemingly very promising approach; however, some key details are not clarified in the current draft of the paper. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Finding melanoma drugs through a probabilistic knowledge graph (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.106v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 27, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
