Review History for A survey of secure middleware for the Internet of Things [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A survey of secure middleware for the Internet of Things To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 16th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 31st, 2015. The first revision was submitted on March 17th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 11th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Xiaodong Wang
·
Apr 11, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revision has addressed the concerns from the previous reviewers, and thus I recommend the manuscript to be accepted.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 17, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Xiaodong Wang
·
Aug 31, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Based on the reviewer's comments, this article should go through a major revision before it can be published.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 19, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The introduction is not strong. It only has some basic information about IoT, but nothing related to the security of the IoT and how the work contributes to the field. In addition, the section 4 (summary and conclusion) doesn't have actual conclusion of the survey.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
There is no need to discuss a list of the middle-ware with insufficient description of the security. It would be enough to just summarize how many middle-wares reviewed did not discuss the security. In addition, this paper has two parts that are kind of disconnected. It first defines the security matrix, and then discusses the security design/implementation of reviewed middle-wares. However, the security design/implementation discussion has little emphasis on the challenges in the security matrix.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are not well summarized.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I would suggest removing those middle-wares without any security information. On the other hand, it will be useful to have more insightful discussions for those with the security design and implementation. For example, there are several middle-ware using XML that is argued to have substantial performance overhead. However, the XML is already used by those middle-wares. Is there any performance study in original middle-ware design to support the use of XML? Do those middle-wares have poor performance because of XML? Do they have more than enough hardware power? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "A survey of secure middleware for the Internet of Things (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.114v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 25, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This paper reviews the literature on the challenges and approaches to security and privacy in the internet of things, with an especial focus on how these aspects are handled in IoT middleware. The topic is important and it is an interesting paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This paper mainly reviews the status of IoT middleware. It does not have design with high novelty and the related experiments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
This paper presents the states and the challenges of IoT middleware from different perspectives. It does not have a lot of data or result. The conclusion is solid and appropriately stated.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper reviews the the current literature on the challenges and approaches to security and privacy in the Internet of Things. The content is solid and the conclusion is stated appropriately . Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "A survey of secure middleware for the Internet of Things (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.114v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 16, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
