Review History for Power1D: a Python toolbox for numerical power estimates in experiments involving one-dimensional continua [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Power1D: a Python toolbox for numerical power estimates in experiments involving one-dimensional continua To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 14th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 31st, 2017. The first revision was submitted on June 9th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 12th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Robert Winkler
·
Jun 12, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I will also test Power1D for the analysis of biological mass spectrometry data (at-line monitoring of natural compounds) in my group.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 9, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Robert Winkler
·
May 31, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The external peer reviewers evaluated your manuscript very positively, and I agree. Please respond timely to the comments, I look forward to quickly process your revised paper.
label_author_1
Chris Richter ·
May 26, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript submitted introduces a 1D power estimation toolbox. It is clearly written and will be relevant for future studies within many fields. Figures are clear and support the understanding of the paper, while not all y axis are labeled (4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,10, 12, 13) and different line styles would help the understanding of graphs when printed black-white. As I am not as experienced with the mathematics that underpin the ideas behind code, I would have appreciated a bit more detail regarding what findings means - e.g. what values are we looking for?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The research question is well defined and the conclusion answers/addresses the purpose of the paper. Methods applied in the paper are well described and proven using simulations. Code is made available allowing the paper to be replicated.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The processes introduced within the paper are sound and provide the user a ability to easily perform a 1d power estimation of a waveform. Conclusion are well stated and differences to existing platforms are explained and justify benefit of the introduced methods and hence the need for publication.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Congratulations Todd to a well written and interesting paper. Below you'll find minor suggestion that will eliminate a few typos and might make the paper a bit easier to read for users from a sport science background. Could you provide a code with would provide an answer to the number of samples needed for an X% increase of a peak value? Line 49: consider "q represents the day of the ..." Line 66: "analytical COMMA one can ...." Line 69-71: I am not sure if I got this right but there is a comma missing: "behavior COMMA ....." Line 84: remove "also" Line 84 and following: you use absolute terms use incorrect rather then clearly incorrect, while incorrect should be replace with inappropriate. This should be adapted in the following lines Line 107: do you mean "model a signal as ...." ? The same in line 109. Line 208 and following please review the style of the term DataSample and make it consistent. Line 301: You might consider to mention / explain Monte Carlo simulation and the Omnibus test before mentioning it - as your techniques will be used in a sport science world. Figure 12: p = 0.992 is not correct. Please explain null and alternative in the text before using it in the figure. Why did you choose COI = 3? What are the dotted line in the figure? Line 527: "(see §)" should refer to something Line 530: consider to omit "understandable" Cite this review as
Richter C ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Power1D: a Python toolbox for numerical power estimates in experiments involving one-dimensional continua (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.125v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Octavio Martinez de la Vega ·
May 29, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In the submitted manuscript, "Power1D: A Python toolbox for numerical power 1 estimates in experiments involving one-dimensional continua", the author presents a computer package called "power1d", which implements analytical 1D power solutions and develops a computational approach to continuum-level power analysis, which allows arbitrary signal and noise modeling. Use of English is correct, clear and unambiguous. The introduction gives a good account of the statistical and computational problems that arise in continuum measurements. The need for the computational methods implemented in the package is well motivated with real data clearly explained. Figures are well designed, relevant and informative. Literature is relevant and well referenced. Raw data as well as source code are supplied and well documented into the site of the package. MINOR POINT: End of line 45, continuing in line 46, substitute "to not vary completely independently" by "do not vary in a completely independent way".
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The author proposes, implement, test and demonstrates a computational approach to continuum-level power analysis that permits arbitrary signal and noise modeling, which is clearly within the scope of "PeerJ Computer Science". Implementation, dependencies and capabilities of the package are well described in the manuscript and more details are given in the site of the package (http://www.spm1d.org/power1d). The research question is well defined and its relevance is clear, while the solutions implemented in the package are well supported. The research presented fills a gap in the methods for continuum-level power analysis, as the author shows both, in the introduction as well as in the discussion of the results. The author comprehensively demonstrates the use of the package for distinct scenarios, clearly showing the frameworks where the methods are of application. The use of real data makes the presentation easier to understand for statisticians and other interested in this topic. The use of a random seed makes the results replicable; in my opinion the research was carried out in a rigorous way with very good technical standards. The methods are described in detail, and the availability of the source code makes it possible to evaluate all details of the methods and their implementation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Validations of the methods implemented in "Power1D" are clearly and extensively shown for 0D power, the 1D power with inflated variance and non-central RFT. Comparisons with other software packages are complete and fair; to my knowledge the author surveyed the main alternative packages, stating their limitations, some of which are filled by the methods implemented in "Power1D". In particular, the implementation of arbitrary continuum-level signal and noise modeling, which allows the power analysis though numerical simulation of random continua, is a remarkable characteristic of the described package. The methods presented by the author and implemented in the package are statistically sound and well presented and exemplified by the use of both, simulations as well as real data. Conclusions are well stated, linked to the original research question and limited to supporting results.
Cite this review as
Martinez de la Vega O ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Power1D: a Python toolbox for numerical power estimates in experiments involving one-dimensional continua (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.125v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 14, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
