Review History for MCLEAN: Multilevel Clustering Exploration As Network [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History MCLEAN: Multilevel Clustering Exploration As Network To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 4th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 10th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.1 (accepted)
Klara Kedem
·
Jan 10, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Two reviewers have provided very favorable comments. The paper presents a novel method for interactively exploring complex datasets in order to discover patterns and clusters. The novelty lies in the combination of computational analysis and visual interpretation. In view of the plethora of ever more detailed and complex data becoming available in many fields, a tool to aid in analysis is very relevant. The article is up-to-date and well structured with references form the last years and clearly presents the advantages of the study performed. A suggestion for possible improvement: To the inexperienced user it is not obvious how the network representation of the clustered dataset (figure 4) results from the node-link network transformation (figure 3). Maybe it would help to orient the figures such that the correspondences between aggregated nodes and the original clusters can be more easily identified.
label_author_1
Andrea Schafferhans ·
Dec 26, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is very well written and thus straightforward to read: The English is clear and unambiguous, literature references and background are provided and the given figures are helpful to support the information presented in the text. Just one idea for a possible improvement: To the inexperienced user it not obvious how the network representation of the clustered dataset (figure 4) results from the node-link network transformation (figure 3). Maybe it would help to orient the figures such that the correspondences between aggregated nodes and the original clusters can be more easily identified.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The paper presents a novel method for interactively exploring complex datasets in order to discover patterns and clusters. The novelty lies in the combination of computational analysis and visual interpretation. In view of the plethora of ever more detailed and complex data becoming available in many fields, a tool to aid in analysis is very relevant. The paper adequately explains the underlying computational methods and demonstrates the capabilities of the new tool using a suitable data set.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors validate their tool by studying the usage by members of their target audience. Thus, they can establish that the new tool has the desired advantages over state of the art methods.
Cite this review as
Schafferhans A ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "MCLEAN: Multilevel Clustering Exploration As Network (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.145v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Florina Scarlatache ·
Jan 9, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is up-to-date and well structured with references form the last years and present clearly the advantages of the study performed.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
In an efficient manner the methodology aims to highlight the multilevel representations of the clustered dataset with community finding algorithms.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The article exposes clearly the results of the study performed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The article is up-to-date and well structured with references form the last years and present clearly the advantages of the study performed. In an efficient manner the methodology aims to highlight the multilevel representations of the clustered dataset with community finding algorithms. The article exposes clearly the results of the study performed. Cite this review as
Scarlatache F ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "MCLEAN: Multilevel Clustering Exploration As Network (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.145v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 4, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
