Review History for Interval Coded Scoring: a toolbox for interpretable scoring systems [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Interval Coded Scoring: a toolbox for interpretable scoring systems To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 9th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 27th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on February 20th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 28th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Sebastian Ventura
·
Feb 28, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
After checking that authors have addressed all the reviewers' suggestions, I think the paper is ready for publications. Congratulations,
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 20, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Sebastian Ventura
·
Dec 27, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please prepare a new manuscript attending all the suggestions provided by the reviewers. In order to consider the statistical treatment suggested by reviewer 2, you could find useful the information available at the following address: http://sci2s.ugr.es/sicidm
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 14, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In this manuscript the authors introduce a Matlab toolbox for ICS. This toolbox provides not only the basic code to perform ICS but also an interactive process with plots and guides to help the users. This work is well structured, complete and self contained. The toolbox validation section is a plus encouraging the reader to use this new toolbox. Some minor comments to improve reading of the manuscript: * In page 4 the authors indicate the possibility of coding interactions. I would recommend adding a sentence offering an example of an interaction in a medical domain. * In the next page the authors talk about the reweighting process. An example of a solution of ICS with and without this process could help the reader understand why interpretation is a must in some domains. * A link to the software or directions on where to obtain, public repository, etc. of the toolbox is mandatory. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Interval Coded Scoring: a toolbox for interpretable scoring systems (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.150v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 23, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
There are several use of parenthesis which can be misunderstood. For example, at line 23 of abstract, the authors write “...for a (binary) classification problem...” which can be understood as the model can be applied in binary and non-binary classification problems. However, along the paper the authors use the binary classification. I suggest to clarify it with examples or eliminating the parenthesis.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Some suggestions are made in the attachment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
- In section 3, there are some comparisons with classical machine learning methods. Concretely, at line 465 the authors say “… it is clear that the differences are relatively small...”. It is a subjective fact without any other supports. This sentence should be supported with some objective studies or analysis, such us,non-parametrical analysis (e.g. Shaffer test.) - In order to achieve a better comparison, the authors should add the ranking data and carry out an analysis of them, among their proposals and among the rest of them.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Interval Coded Scoring: a toolbox for interpretable scoring systems (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.150v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 9, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
