Review History for 20 GB in 10 minutes: a case for linking major biodiversity databases using an open socio-technical infrastructure and a pragmatic, cross-institutional collaboration [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History 20 GB in 10 minutes: a case for linking major biodiversity databases using an open socio-technical infrastructure and a pragmatic, cross-institutional collaboration To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 17th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 20th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on August 21st, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 29th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alessandro Frigeri
·
Aug 29, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Anne, I'm glad to see the good use of reviewers' comments, resulting in an improved version of your already good article. I do believe that this will be an important reference for quick data access from different sources. The problem is relevant to other disciplines as well and I'm glad to see works being made in this direction. I'm completely favorable to the publication of the article in PeerJ Computer Science.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 21, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alessandro Frigeri
·
Jun 20, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Anne, This paper touches the problem of the interoperability of databases, which is very relevant in most up-to-date scientific research activities. Although this applies to the field biodiversity I see the potential for the application of the approach presented in this paper also in other disciplines. Therefore I'm strongly towards the publication of this paper after taking into consideration the minor revisions suggested by the two reviewers, which will surely improve the already good research paper you have submitted to PeerJ. Best Regards, Alessandro Frigeri [# PeerJ Staff Note: It is PeerJ policy that additional references suggested during the peer-review process should only be included if the authors are in agreement that they are relevant and useful #]
label_author_1
Roderic Page ·
May 30, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a very exciting paper that outlines a methodology for aligning large biodiversity datasets in a very short amount of time (certainly, less time than it takes to download some of the data). The approach is a significant advance in an area that has struggled to map data across multiple data providers. I have a few minor quibbles, mostly about how the work is presented. These are listed below, in no particular order. The phrase "taxon graph" was a little unclear. If I'm correct, it's simply a "star tree" with a node in source database in the centre, and each external identifier that it is linked to is represented by a node connected to that central node. To treat this as a graph seems overly elaborate, why not simply treat it as a set of external identifiers? The description of overlap and consistency (line 169 onwards) might benefit from a diagram of some examples, rather than require the reader to keep a set of identifiers in their head. It might also be useful to explain why "GLOBI:null@Procladius sp1 M_PL_014" had so many mappings. The performance is impressive, but the comparison to other efforts (e.g., EOL, BioNames, line 230) suffers somewhat because it relies on anecdotal recollections of how much effort was expended on semi-automated mapping. However, there's not much which can be done about this. The authors recommend (line 245) that owners of taxonomic databases provide lookup tables to help data integration. The description of a look up table is verbal, and so open to some ambiguity. A diagram of an example would make it very clear what format is expected (I'm reminded of how explicit the "Tidy data" paper is in this regard, see http://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.html ). The Venn diagram in Fig 3 is not to scale, which is somewhat misleading. How about using something like a cluster map, see http://iphylo.blogspot.com/2012/06/visualising-differences-between.html I've attached a very crude version to show what I mean. Such a diagram makes it clear to what extent the various sources overlap, without the distortion of the Venn diagram (the circles could be scaled to the log of the number of taxa in each category, for example). Looking at the github repository for this project (https://github.com/bio-guoda/guoda-datasets/blob/master/wikidata/README.md) I'm invited to go to https://guoda.bio/ to learn more. There's a problem with the HTTPS security certificate for this site, which triggers all sorts of warnings in various web browsers. DOI and LSID are acronyms and should be capitalised, and perhaps spelt out the first time they are mentioned. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Page RD ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "20 GB in 10 minutes: a case for linking major biodiversity databases using an open socio-technical infrastructure and a pragmatic, cross-institutional collaboration (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.164v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jens Klump ·
Jun 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is well written and well structured. It is easy to read and to follow the authors' reasoning. The literature references provide sufficient context. Figure 1 is a bit oversimplified. In addition to product logos, it would be helpful to learn about the functional elements of the architecture.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The use of Wikidata as a source of taxonomic information is highly novel and well executed. As part of the discussion (line 241-242), the authors mention the social barriers that have prevented the biodiversity community from introducing identifiers for taxa. A paper by P. Nimis (2001) illustrates these barriers quite well and might be included as a reference. Nimis, P. L. (2001). A tale from Bioutopia - Could a change of nomenclature bring peace to biology’s warring tribes? Nature, 413(6851), 21. https://doi.org/10.1038/35092637 Further on in the discussion (lines 250 f), the authors note that a detection of inconsistencies in the identification of species across systems might also be implemented. It would be of interest to learn why this has not been implemented, even if it was just due to a lack of time or resources. A possible approach to dealing with taxonomic inconsistencies has been demonstrated by Huber & Klump (2009), showing that the validity of taxonomic names can be estimated by graph analysis. Huber, R., & Klump, J. (2009). Charting taxonomic knowledge through ontologies and ranking algorithms. Computers & Geoscience, 35(4), 862–868. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cageo.2008.02.016
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
In their paper, the authors stress several times that their solution is very fast. The manuscript would be more informative in this respect of the authors could supply the reader with more information, if available, about where the bottlenecks in processing are and how the system scales.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In general, I enjoyed reading this manuscript. The use of Wikidata and JSON outlines a new and original approach to biodiversity data that will be able to bridge the gaps between existing biodiversity information systems at scale. Cite this review as
Klump J ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "20 GB in 10 minutes: a case for linking major biodiversity databases using an open socio-technical infrastructure and a pragmatic, cross-institutional collaboration (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.164v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 17, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
