Review History for Security durability assessment through fuzzy analytic hierarchy process [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Security durability assessment through fuzzy analytic hierarchy process To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 28th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 24th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on June 17th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 16th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marta Cimitile
·
Jul 16, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All the minor revisions are made. I think the paper is now ready for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 17, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marta Cimitile
·
May 24, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The paper is suitable for publication but some minor revisions are required as per the comments below.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 5, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper has made several contributions toward the establishment of security durability during software development in industry. The manuscript introduces the security durability and assessment. The quality of the article is good, the content is novel and the structure is complete. The work presented should be more precise and related to work done in the paper. Too many general stiffs discussed should be avoided. It is suggested to carefully check the format. Recommended for inclusion.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Entrance exam software of BBA University has been taken as an experiment. But the attributes of design hasn't been provided. Although, it is made clear that only security attributes are taken. But I think more attributes of design and security can be merged together to form the hierarchy.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Fuzzy MCDM methods have taken to assess the security durability and use the values of alpha and beta as 0.5. The researcher is given the sensitivity analysis of the results with respect to value of alpha and beta. More methods of MCDM can be used for better validation of the results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Please add more security analysis on the proposed system. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Security durability assessment through fuzzy analytic hierarchy process (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.215v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 5, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Please revise the format of all tables.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This paper provides original results of tha application of a multicriteria methods already largely used. In terms of relevance it was not clear to if the merit of this paper. So, please better explain the relevance of its paper as it is a crucial aspect to approuve its publication.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
In addition below I provide other comments to be addressed: Abstract Methods: description of methods in abstract is very generalist, please revise this part focused on methods and procedures used. Results: description of results in abstract provide no usefull information, please revise it. Material and methods Line 206 to 258. This part is not material and methods, it is literature review, please move it to the correct section. Line 259: AHP is one of the most largely used multicriteria methods and it presents several disadvantages over other methods like compensation and rank reversal. So, please justify why AHP was adopted instead of other methods that does not present its disadvantages. Line 468 to 490. This part is not material and methods, it is literature review, please move it to the correct section. Line 750 to 865. This part was very generalist and detached from the rest of this section, please condense the information provided here.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Security durability assessment through fuzzy analytic hierarchy process (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.215v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Marsa Gholamzadeh ·
May 20, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The text is well structured but the main objective of the article was not shown in the abstract clearly. It is better the introduction section rewrite. You need to present the text structure at the end of the Introduction.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No comment
Comments for the author
I’d like to suggest that the authors get editing help from someone with full professional proficiency in English. Cite this review as
Gholamzadeh M ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Security durability assessment through fuzzy analytic hierarchy process (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.215v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 28, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
