Review History for A framework for cut-over management [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A framework for cut-over management To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 13th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 25th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on October 6th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 15th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Letha Etzkorn
·
Oct 15, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Good paper thank you for the revision
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 6, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Letha Etzkorn
·
Sep 25, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This is a very nice paper. However, I believe that additional research references, related to the area addressed by the paper, are needed. I understand there are not many people working in the area. Perhaps 2 or 3 papers that are obliquely related to the area could be possible. That is, that this is not a direct extension of their research, but that they work in related areas, and how the work in this paper is different. Other than that, however, the paper is well written and both reviewers liked it.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 22, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This paper provides a governance structure for IT-related projects, especially when the projects are ready to roll out to production. This paper is based on the author’s consulting experiences in the Department of Testing and Release Management at the Otto Group, which is headquartered in Hamburg, Germany. My impression of the paper is that the author has done enough work to warrant a publication, especially the author does provide a methodology for rolling out projects so that the transition to new systems can be done smoothly. However, I do have one complaint. The paper does not include a real-world case. (Maybe I missed it, I do not know.) For papers of this sort, real-world cases are important because the theory proposed by the paper can only be tested empirically, not mathematically. Hence, a successful application of the methodology is important to convince readers that the methodology is valid.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
See previous comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Can only be validated by real-world cases.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Please provide a real-world case of successful application of your methodology. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "A framework for cut-over management (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.29v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Josh Jones ·
Sep 23, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper clearly defines a method for live deployment of a project. It does a good job of emphasizing the need for applying an exact, formal methodology as opposed to simply using best practices, so that the scientific method can be applied and and data can be used to back up our idea that the method is "better".
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The paper demonstrates an adequate case study that applies this methodology and the ideas are well supported. Because each project is unique, it would be difficult or impossible to exactly reproduce the results. However, it could be tested on other projects to see if inclusion of cut-over requirements in the ITIL management model show more timely delivery.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The paper used good statistical methods that support the validity of the papers findings
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No Comment Cite this review as
Jones J ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "A framework for cut-over management (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.29v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 13, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
