Review History for Zbrowse: an interactive GWAS results browser [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Zbrowse: an interactive GWAS results browser To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 16th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 19th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 9th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 11th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Harry Hochheiser
·
May 11, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the concerns raised by the reviewers and in my initial letter. These changes make the paper much stronger.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 9, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Harry Hochheiser
·
Apr 19, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The comments provided by the reviewers appear to me to be fair and appropriate. To these comments, I would like to add a few suggestions aimed at increasing the utility of the paper: 1. The multi-trait feature is interesting, but not well displayed in the figures. Would it be possible to provide a screen shot displaying results for more than one trait? 2. The contribution of this paper would be more clear if it were contrasted with prior work in GWAS visualization, including effort such as Locus Zoom (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20634204), LocusTrack (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25750659), GWASCentral (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24301061), and Postgwas (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23977141). 3. The paper as written contains little in the way of evaluation. Please consider adding a brief description of a case study of how the tool might facilitate interpretation of GWAS results. This might be accomplished by reframing your description of features into a narrative describing how those tools might be used to interpret a specific data set.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 25, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Overall a great tool with an intuitive interface that facilitates analysis of SNP data over multiple traits. More attention should be given to the type of input data / formats / columns. When evaluating the utility, I think it would be helpful to know how the data must be wrangled to use your tool. The difficulty becomes more apparent when you talk about adding additional organisms. This should be documented and/or explained as it is often the most difficult part of preparing for analysis and I think will help with additional adoption of your toolchain. I think using R as a starting point is great and makes it instantly accessible to scientists. I think that using the web-browser as an interface makes a lot of sense. I think that longer-term it might make more sense to allow it be run out of a more global server (e.g., tomcat, jetty) to better facilitate data sharing. In you limitations, you mention limiting the genotype data and getting around that by trimming the data. I think that a better solution (architecture allowing) would be to calculate an intermediate view for the denser traits, or automatically apply an adjustable filter. I wholeheartedly agree with database support so long as you can keep the simplicity of your current setup for individual users. Fig. 1 Interface: Would it be possible to show the NSP's in their own column instead of including redundant information in the name (e.g., chromosome, BP)? Would prefer just to see G/A instead (even if the name is stored the same internally).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Is Z in ZBrowse for Ziegler? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Zbrowse: an interactive GWAS results browser (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.3v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 17, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Commnts
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Ok
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Ok
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this paper, the authors have developed an R package for displaying GWAS results, along with genomic annotations of several plant genomes, including arabidopsis thaliana,maize, soybean, and sorghum. The results can also be viewed by using a browser locally. Comparing to some existing tools, an important feature from this tool is that it can show results from multiple traits. However, the current input format requires all p-values from different traits in one column and the program cannot accept other type of formats, such as p-values of one trait in one column, which might be more common in practice. Some other limitations: - It can only plot about 5000 points per trait due to memory, time and plotting constraints. Given that many SNP arrays normally have hundreds of thousands SNPs, it requires users first to perform filtering to only keep small p-values. - User interface can be further improved. For example, it is better to have an indication (i.e. waiting mouse cursor) for tasks requiring long time. Overall, this is a simple, but potentially useful tool for some plant biologists. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Zbrowse: an interactive GWAS results browser (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.3v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 16, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
