Review History for An algorithm for discovering Lagrangians automatically from data [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History An algorithm for discovering Lagrangians automatically from data To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 7th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 16th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on October 15th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 20th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jingbo Wang
·
Oct 20, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your submission with revision is now accepted for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 15, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jingbo Wang
·
Sep 16, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The above manuscript has been reviewed by two of our referees. Comments from the reports appear below for your consideration.
label_author_1
Thomas Loke ·
Aug 12, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
A formatting suggestion: Summarize results for test systems pertaining to final model (the (m,p) parameters, number of free parameters, computational time & number of iterations required) in a table. On that note, there doesn't seem to be much analysis on the differing convergence rates for different systems - what conditions cause this-or-that test system to converge quicker? Would also like to see some comments on how the computation time scales for 2-dimensional or higher dimensional systems (since every test system presented has been 1-dimensional) - is this approach for finding the Lagrangian computationally feasible for larger systems?
Cite this review as
Loke T ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "An algorithm for discovering Lagrangians automatically from data (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.31v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Mark Reynolds ·
Sep 8, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The idea of using the principle of least action seems novel and is interesting. The paper is well written, structured and complicated physics and algorithms are explained well albeit at a high level of abstraction. I was left wondering a little about the scalability of the first approach using the Nelder-Mead optimisation. The examples, and the excellent results even with noise, seem to be dealing with situations with very small values of m and p. Could you say something about how this method would scale to more complicated examples? Also, what sorts of values of m and p might be found in typical real-world examples? In the second, GA, approach the use of syntactic expressions as the genetic material is appropriate but I do not think that that is novel, as such. Perhaps some more references to related previous work is needed here. Minor points... Some of the specifics of the modifications to EL_D to construct the score function seem a little arbitrary. For the non-physicist reader the discounting of certain terms from the Lagrangian because they can have "no physical significance" could be explained. Cite this review as
Reynolds M ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "An algorithm for discovering Lagrangians automatically from data (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.31v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 7, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
