Review History for A Socratic epistemology for verbal emotional intelligence [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A Socratic epistemology for verbal emotional intelligence To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 10th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 2nd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on December 7th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 10th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jaume Bacardit
·
Dec 10, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am happy with the way the authors have addressed the comments from the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 7, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jaume Bacardit
·
Oct 2, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please thoroughly address the comments of the reviewers. A more rigorous statistical validation as suggested by reviewer 2 would make the paper much stronger. If this is not viable, explain why.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 7, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article describes a computational model for computers to learn subjective information about emotions by playing a game named EMO20Q (emotion twenty questions). The research work is well presented and motivated. The methodology is suitable. The English is very good and easy to read. A few English/style-related suggestions are indicated below: - Line 143. Revise grammar: “a logical device to used to model” - Line 215. The advice given to the reader about using “his or her episodic buffer” is not appropriate in scientific writing. - Line 399. “there were unique 99 emotion words” -> “there were 99 unique emotion words”
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experiments have been carefully designed and have been reported in a clear and convincing way. I understand that carrying out experiments for evaluating this kind of techniques is costly. However, to highlight the importance of the contribution it would have been desirable (although not mandatory) to compare the proposed method to some baseline method.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The experimental results are well described. Both the discussion and conclusion sections are suitable. It would be useful to discuss some additional issues. For instance, have the authors analyzed if the approach could be generalized to identify other kinds of words that may not be emotions? It is clear that for emotion-related words it is easier to keep a controlled vocabulary and standardized questions. But how this could be adapted to other domains? On the other hand, if the domain is limited to emotions, why not taking advantage of other mechanisms, such as ad hoc ontologies describing emotions?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
There are a few aspects that require further clarification: 1. Why have the authors decided to use a Bayesian learning model instead of other kinds of models? For this kind of problems, a decision tree may also be appropriate. A more detailed justification for their choice should be presented. 2. It is not clear how the feature engineering process is carried out. Examples of features should be included. 3. It is not clear how questions are derived. Are the standardized questions the only ones that are used or does the system learn additional questions through the human-human EMO20Q games? 4. How do the questions relate to the features? 5. Please, give further details on the process that is applied to learn new vocabulary. 6. By new vocabulary do you only mean new words describing emotions or do you also mean other terms related to emotions that might be used as part of the questions? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "A Socratic epistemology for verbal emotional intelligence (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.40v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Martin Butz ·
Oct 2, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
An interesting study of 20Q-games about emotion words. The algorithm is very simple - maybe a little bit too simple for really being novel in any way - nonetheless, I found the paper an interesting read and generally a good engineering contribution on how to go about solving the proposed challenge. The philosophical relations to the good-old Greeks is a matter of taste - I find it a little bit overly lengthy but judge it as acceptable.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
clearly the psychological studies could have been done in a better manner - while the authors emphasize that they wanted to keep any option open, I think it would have been a better idea to restrict the emotion words to say 100 or so. In consequence, the results are hard to interpret. Statistical tests due to the different groups are hard to conduct and thus the result remain qualitative.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The qualitative results are hard to interpret - did the system really make progress (statistical significant difference between results in table 5 and 6?). I think one could at least compare performance of the system in the 100 subject experiments comparing, for example, performance with the first 50 subjects with those from the second 50 subjects (e.g. with respect to avg. turns in the easy and medium categories). A similar comparison could be made between the preliminary and the mechanical turk study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I upload the annotated pdf - there were quite a few spelling and simple English mistakes. Please correct these. I also recommend in the future to do a final spell-check before submitting - these mistakes suggest that the manuscript has not undergone sufficient care in its preparation. Also verify the equation and explain your choices in the algorithm (as annotated in the pdf). Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Butz M ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "A Socratic epistemology for verbal emotional intelligence (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.40v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 10, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
