Review History for A computational framework for colour metrics and colour space transforms [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A computational framework for colour metrics and colour space transforms To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 18th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 20th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on February 1st, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 4th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Klara Kedem
·
Feb 4, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The corrections and clarifications are satisfactory
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 1, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Klara Kedem
·
Oct 20, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear author, All in all the referees would like the paper to be much clearer. The innovation spelled out and the Figures thoroughly explained. Below is a summary of their remarks. The author presents an interesting implementation related to color metrics and color space transformation. It is not clear whether there are other such implementations, and if yes – one should see comparisons to them (see metrics, for instance, in: M. M. Deza and E. Deza, Encyclopedia of Distances, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009). The innovations in the paper should be emphasized. The word "CIEDE2000" is used as both of metric and space. Readers may be confused. CIEDE2000 is usually used as a color difference metric. The author should define the CIEDE2000 color space. The author claims that new color spaces can be created. However, there is no discussion about the meaningful created color spaces. The author should explain better figures 5 to 8. More figures in Sections 2 and 3 will help to illustrate the work applications. More examples are needed in the "Example Application" Section 4. The Conclusion (Section 5) should be expanded.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 5, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The author presents an interesting material related to colour metrics and colour space transformation . It will be nice if he explains better the figures 5 to 8 , and organizes better the references.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Nice work . However, the inclusion of more figures in section 2 and 3 will help to illustrate the work applications, as well as more examples in the "Example Application" section (4).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The Conclusion (section 5) deserve be expanted.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
How about some comparison with other usual metrics for instance those presented in: M. M. Deza and E. Deza, Encyclopedia of Distances, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2009 Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "A computational framework for colour metrics and colour space transforms (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.48v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 22, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The word "CIEDE2000" is used as both of metric and space. Readers may confuse. CIEDE2000 is usually used as a color difference metric. You should clearly define the CIEDE2000 color space.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
In the manuscript, it is written that new color spaces can be created. However, there is no discussion about the meaningful color spaces. It is important to derive new color spaces from the derived framework.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The discussion of computational complexity or processing speed lacks.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "A computational framework for colour metrics and colour space transforms (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.48v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Oct 20, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
It is unclear whether others have already implemented a similar job and a comparison between the proposed method and the other.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
There is uncertainty regarding the strengths of the work. it is necessary to explain the innovative points. It is not clear the robustness of the method. there are no news from the point of view of research but only from the implementation point of view.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "A computational framework for colour metrics and colour space transforms (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.48v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 18, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
