Review History for Information theoretic alignment free variant calling [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Information theoretic alignment free variant calling To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 30th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 25th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 2nd, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 26th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mireille Regnier
·
May 26, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the additional simulation study on page 6, and your analysis of contexts page 12. I have now reviewed your rebuttal and revision and the article is Accepted.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 2, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mireille Regnier
·
Feb 25, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear authors The second referee is asking for major revisions to enforce experimental validation. It is especially important that the question about a possible bias in the method is answered properly. The answer might arise from an additional run on new data. A second important requirement is the need for control data.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 29, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The article under review is more related to biology than computer science. Thus, I am not sure whether PeerJ Computer Science is the most suitable place for the article.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The article proposes an alignment and assembly free variant calling method which is based on the context surrounding particular nucleotides. It consists of two steps: variant calling and variant finding. In order to find the length of the context, information theoretic principles are used. The article is well-written. The new method is compared with previous ones and it seems quite effective. My only concern is that the paper seems to be more relevant for biology and thus, I am not sure whether PeerJ Computer Science is the most suitable place for publication. I conclude with three (minor) typos the authors might want to correct in a revision: Line 201: "...is therefore high and we used..."; Line 234: appli -> apply? Line 272: delete one of the two "avoiding". Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Information theoretic alignment free variant calling (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.71v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jean-Marc Steyaert ·
Feb 18, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Just to fix the main ideas, this paper describes and justifies a method aiming to identify genetic variants inside a species, given a set of genomic sequences. These variants are not restricted to be SNPs only, but can result from INS/DEL modifications as well. Furthermore, and certainly more importantly, this method has been designed to be self contained, i.e. without reference to any a priori known test genome. This problem is therefore of great interest and any certified solution will be of great use. Basic reporting The paper is generally well written and easy to read ; the mathematical framework is not too exotic and the references allow the reader to go easily to omitted proofs or developments. One will however be surprised that the authors use systematically “statistic” and not “statistics” as a substantive, whereas it is declared as an adjective in most dictionaries. As mentioned previously literature is well referenced and relevant. However the abstract and introduction do not show properly the goals of this study, its major achievements and the domain of validity of the method. This is a real weakness of the paper. Figure 1 is good, Figure 2 average but Figure 3 is weak and hardly understandable.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experimental proof is weak. Only three sets of genomes have been study which is clearly not enough for validation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
As I said in my intro, the problem is a real one and a good solution will have a real impact. The mathematical background in statistics is neither original nor very hard, and there is no really new nor deep theorem, which does not bother me: the originality can come from having the idea of building evidence from already known features. My main problem comes from the fact that I do not see a link between the mathematical properties and the claim that this method will indeed find the relevant variants in most situations. The last paragraph of the introduction (lines 52-57) is apparently based on 3 experimental studies with no quantitative argument! It is surprising that the numbers of variants are all of the same orders of magnitude (lines 176-179) and that there is no analysis of a possible biais in the method under certain conditions. The last paragraph of the introduction in Section 3 (lines 186-189) is also puzzling: any computer scientist should explain why a program is so time consuming… Finally, I think that the considerations about the accuracy of the predictions should be stated by more rigorous experimental checking. I would guess that the method goes not so badly whenever the solution is close to the center of the gaussian, but that it works poorly elsewhere. A first check would be to test the accuracy would be to start with the prefix/suffix model on validated data under several different genetic situations. Then I would try INS/DEL situations again under different clustering conditions. I think that it should then be possible to argue more convincingly on the validity of the method, since a formal mathematical proof is very likely out of scope.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I suggest that the authors strengthen their experimental validation by a more thorough and systematic evaluation of the relevance of their results. Paragraphs such as 2.4, 2.5 and Section 3 should be rewritten. The introduction and the conclusion will be accordingly modified. Cite this review as
Steyaert J ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Information theoretic alignment free variant calling (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.71v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 30, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
