Review History for What should we know to develop an information robot? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History What should we know to develop an information robot? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 14th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 6th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 22nd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 28th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Yaochu Jin
·
May 28, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The paper is acceptable provided the following changes are made: 1) Left panel of Fig.1 should be removed, as it contains personal information and is not relevant to the paper. 2) Please change the sign on the robot in the right panel of Fig. 1 into English.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 22, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Yaochu Jin
·
Apr 6, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Based on the reviews, the paper would be acceptable provided that the reviewers' comments, particularly those found in Review #2 be adequately addressed. Experimental assessment of users satisfaction raised in Review #1.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 3, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This article reported a new interesting study on how to make information robots be more intelligent, and the obtained results may be helpful to other researchers. I think it may be more valuable if this study could contain the experimental results on users' satisfaction when they interact with an information robot. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "What should we know to develop an information robot? (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.8v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Dai Hasegawa ·
Apr 4, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
'information' (with quotations) indicates that the authors used the word in a special meaning, but it was used as in the range of the general meaning, such as direction-giving. So, I would like to suggest you get rid of the quotations. Also, in the title, it would be grammatically appropriate if it was "What should we know to develop 'information' robots?" or "What should we know to develop a 'information' robot?" I found grammatical errors and typos in writing. I would like you to revise those error. The authors should use native check for the paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The study designs and analysis methods are appropriate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are offered with statistics, and the interpretations are appropriately stated.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The paper reports an development of a direction-giving robot (knowledge and algorithms) and field studies exploring the effects of self-introduction in direction-giving interaction. The study was interesting. I believe the contributions described in the paper were sufficient for publishing. Cite this review as
Hasegawa D ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "What should we know to develop an information robot? (v0.1)" . PeerJ Computer Science https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj-cs.8v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 14, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
computer science
