Review History for How long is a piece of loop? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History How long is a piece of loop? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 13th, 2012 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 15th, 2012. The first revision was submitted on November 20th, 2012 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 21st, 2012.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Walter de Azevedo Jr.
·
Nov 21, 2012
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Paper accepted after modifications.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 20, 2012
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Walter de Azevedo Jr.
·
Nov 15, 2012
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
You manuscript needs minor revision.
label_author_1
Andras Fiser ·
Nov 14, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript of Choi et al. explores a specific property of protein loops: their span. It observes that loops with very different lengths (number of residues) can be fitted roughly to the same spans. They also describe a metric to asses the loop stretch, which in turn is informative to the quality of prediction: the more compact a loop, the more difficult to model it properly. As a consequence the authors argue that loop modeling methods should be tested and should be more focused on highly contracted loops, irrespectively of loop length, because these are much more challenging to model. Overall I found this work interesting and useful, the analysis is well done. I have a few minor comments: (1) The Introduction describing the loop modeling approaches is slightly misleading. It is important to stress that loop conformations -once the modeling is treated as a mini protein problem - do not depend on the loop sequence only. As in case of full length proteins a given sequence folds in its native fold under physiological conditions. In case of full length proteins the physiological environment is the solvent (and temperature etc), while in case of loop it is the solvent AND the rest of the protein spanning it. As a consequence, as it was described by us (BMC Struct Biol. 2006 Jul 4;6:15.Saturating representation of loop conformational fragments in structure databanks. Fernandez-Fuentes N, Fiser A.) and others, loops with identical sequences can have different conformations depending on the protein they show up. (2) In Fig 2C, I would guess that probably almost all membrane loops come from helix-helix connections, and this would require a comparison to helix-helix connected soluble loops and not to a mixed class, as it is now. In Fig2B helix-helix soluble loops spans are slightly shifted right for longer spans and on Fig2C membrane ones to the left, to shorter spans and therefore it is possible that once properly compared there will be a small but possibly significant difference. (3) There might be some trivial explanation for the roughly constant span of loops: tightly packed proteins cannot afford large cavities and therefore the typical anchor distances of ends of secondary structures will be under strong thermodynamic selection. All loops , irrespectively of length will have to be accommodated within that given span. There are some references to it in the text, but I think it might be a driving effect. (4) Fig. 6 illustrates one of the main points of the work that loop prediction accuracy is negatively correlated with loop span. While I do not doubt this effect, it seems that among compacted loops a few outliers contribute disproportionally to the worsening performance. I would suggest to use mean instead of average to account for the non-gaussian distribution more accurately. Cite this review as
Fiser A ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "How long is a piece of loop? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Joost Schymkowitz ·
Nov 13, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper meets all the criteria of PeerJ, it is sound, well written and it represents an important intelectual contribution to the field of loop structure prediction.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors do two things: they analyse some test sets of loops in terms of the stretch and span parameters and then evaluate loop prediction accuracy of the ab initio method Modeller to try to get an idea of difficulty of the structure prediction problem (judged by the accuracy of modeller's performance). I like the concept a lot and it makes a lot of sense, complicated loop folds are essentially harder to predict - which still allows for longer loops to be harder than shorter ones, but length in not in itself the key determinant. As an adept of database-based methods, I would have liked to see the same analysis using eg our freely available loopbrix method (http://brix.switchlab.org/), since this would tell if DB methods somehow have a different accuracy profile.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I think the study is well done and the results are clearly presented, the conclusions are supported by the data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Cool paper. Cite this review as
Schymkowitz J ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "How long is a piece of loop? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 13, 2012 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
