Review History for Beliefs in being unlucky and deficits in executive functioning: an ERP study [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Beliefs in being unlucky and deficits in executive functioning: an ERP study To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 19th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 27th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on April 28th, 2015 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 18th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tifei Yuan
·
May 18, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Congratulations and thank you for your submission.
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
May 18, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors addressed several points raised properly, and the manuscript is now much clearer.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The revision has profited from the reviewers comment, and demonstrating stronger main interference effects in the unlucky group with more negative distributed late ERP component during incongruent trials represents strength of the present paper.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I recommend the revised paper could be published.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Beliefs in being unlucky and deficits in executive functioning: an ERP study (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1007v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 28, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tifei Yuan
·
Jan 27, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please refer to the comments from the two reviewers and revise the manuscript accordingly.
label_author_2
Teres Hawkes ·
Jan 20, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This paper meets basic reporting standards required by PeerJ, however the English needs some serious editing for clarity. The main body of the manuscript is centered rather than left aligned or full justified. This should be corrected. The introduction allows the reader to understand the experimental design. However, I do wonder why the Stroop was chosen, instead of a task switch. Do the authors plan to test this hypothesis in future with other executive measures? The background on ERP association with Stroop is sparse, and could be more fully developed. Is there any literature on ERP association with the Dysexecutive Luck hypothesis?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The question of whether beliefs are associated with neural function is important. Indeed, cognitive neuroscientists are tasked with discovering how neural function and cognitive behaviors such as belief formation and activation are related. This research question addresses how beliefs about being unlucky may be rooted in neural dysfunction in brain microcircuit arrays shown to subserve executive function. The investigators selected a Stroop paradigm as an executive function exemplar. Stroop evaluates inhibitory function. Others might have been selected, such as a task switch, which can evaluate the interaction between inhibitory, updating, and shifting functions. The authors may want to make it particularly clear why they selected the Stroop over other executive assessments and what future research directions they plan to take. For their experiment, self-reported beliefs of being lucky or unlucky were the basis for dividing participants into two groups: self-reported lucky or unlucky. Participants were then administered a carefully quantified Stroop test (facilitation, interference, and Stroop effects) during EEG recording. Their parsing of the Stroop is excellent. Selection of the EEG event-related time window is reasonable given their expected neural mechanisms. This study thus appears to be observational and cross-sectional in nature. No conditions were experimentally manipulated.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Because this study is not a true experiment, it cannot establish that neural dysfunction in the executive network caused participant beliefs in being unlucky. All they can do is show that there is an association between self-reported beliefs and neural function.The authors need to be very careful to make this clear in their discussion. Designing an experiment to establish neural causation of any belief will be difficult in humans. That being said, the investigators do show a very clear difference between their groups in the direction they predicted on neural function as well as behavioral performance.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I suggest you find a very good editor to copy-edit your manuscript for clarity. I suggest you report correlations between your Stroop measures, ERP amplitudes, and self-reported luck or unluck belief. Cite this review as
Hawkes T ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Beliefs in being unlucky and deficits in executive functioning: an ERP study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1007v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 22, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This study tested the Dysexecutive Luck hypothesis using by ERP. It investigates individuals who thought themselves to be unlucky if deficits in the early stage of top down attentional control led to an increase of neural activity in later stages of response related selection process. This article does meet the standards.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The study performed A Stroop test and was methodologically well elaborated. However, in line 156-176: Regarding to the Stroop experimental, consisting of three sequential phases, the author did not explain the reason for such design and state their consideration.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
1.Line 271-273: “Electrophysiological results supported the role of ………..of Stroop interference effect.” Is the term ‘Stroop interference effect’ the same as “interference effect”? Does it different from the term ‘Stroop effect’ in line 216? 2.Figures A- C showed the Grand Average ERPs of the three condition effects for both groups. However, these effects were obtained after computing three different combinations of conditions and mean averages in the Stroop test, such as the facilitation effect (control congruent condition minus congruent condition), interference effect (incongruent condition minus control incongruent condition), and Stroop effect (incongruent condition minus congruent condition) across behavioral and ERP data respectively. The weakness of this approach in ERP waveform analysis, however, is that physiological processes are usually not additive, that is, do not occur such that the physiological processes in one condition equal those processes in the other conditions plus or minus one other process. Consequently, the authors should provide some evidence to support the straightforward interpretation of the difference waveform. Moreover, if subtractions are used, the original ERPs from which the difference waveforms were derived should be presented together with the difference waveforms. Four electrodes’ original ERPs (Fz, FC1, FCz, and FC2) during the time window of 450-780 ms post stimulus onset on four conditions must be shown. 3.With regard to RT, a significant difference between the 'unlucky' and control group for interference effect and Stroop effect, but not in the facilitation effect. However, there was a significant difference in the magnitude of interference effect for electrode Fz, FC1 , FCZ, and FC2. Also, there was a significant difference in the magnitude of the facilitation effect between individuals with no beliefs in being unlucky and individuals with beliefs in being unlucky for electrode Fz and FC1. But no significant difference in the magnitude between the 'unlucky' and control group for Stroop effect. Results showed discordant findings between RT and ERP in both Stroop effect and facilitation effect. What’s the interpretation for these findings?
Comments for the author
Results and discussion provide a few new insights. Therefore, the submitted paper is suitable for publication. However, there are a number of important issues and recommendations mentioned above that would seem to require careful attention for the final version. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Beliefs in being unlucky and deficits in executive functioning: an ERP study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1007v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 19, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
