Review History for Looking at microbial metabolism by high-resolution 2H-NMR spectroscopy [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Looking at microbial metabolism by high-resolution 2 H-NMR spectroscopy To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 23rd, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 16th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on June 20th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 21st, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Eugene Permyakov
·
Jun 21, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear DR. Uversky, Thank you for your submission to PeerJ. I am writing to inform you that your manuscript, "Looking at microbial metabolism by high-resolution 2 H-NMR spectroscopy" (#2013:05:516:1:0:REVIEW), has been accepted for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 20, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Eugene Permyakov
·
Jun 16, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Uversky, Woud you like to answer the reviewers questions and correct your manuscript according to the reviewers criticism.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 16, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Spell checking needed. such as page 3, line 50, some not "come', line 125, 90 pulse, not "impulse".
Experimental design
label_ed_1
More detailed information of sample preparation and NMR experiments should be providied. What is the heavy water conentent in the homogenates sample? What is the concentration of antibiotics? how to make sure the concentration is enough to suppress the bacterial activity and not affect the metaboic of liver cells? What pulse sequence used to collect 1H and 2H spectra? 2H spectra were acquired in lock channel? How long is relaxation delay (d1) used? no water suppression? NMR signals processing parameters.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In fig.3 and fig5, the 2H spectra of samples treated with sodium azide and antibiotics show differences, what casue the differences? Spectra window should be the same in fig 3 and 5. It seems huge peak of D2O was not shown in the spectra, the author should state it clearly in the figure lengend or in the text.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The advatage and necessary to use insensitive 2H spectra should be given in the introduction. The assignments of the peaks shound cite proper references. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Looking at microbial metabolism by high-resolution 2H-NMR spectroscopy (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.101v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 9, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In the manuscript “Looking at microbial metabolism by high-resolution 2H-NMR spectroscopy” by Kutyshenko et al., a new approach for examination of the biological fluids is developed. It is shown that high-resolution 2H-NMR spectroscopy is an effective tool for the quantitative analysis of aqueous extracts of the rat liver homogenates. It was also demonstrated that cellular metabolic processes can be differentiated via cell poisons and antibiotics. It is concluded that this approach applicable for other cells and tissues become an effective tool for detection and control of both microbial and host enzymatic processes. I have several minor comments: 1. page 2, line 21, page 4, lines 71-72: Abstract and Introduction it is announced that the work will be done on samples of mitochondrion isolated from rat liver and from aqueous extracts of homogenates of rat liver and other organs and tissues, but in reality data only for mitochondrion isolated from rat liver and from aqueous extracts of homogenates of rat liver are presented. 2. page 4, lines 65-69: It is not clear the propagation of what? death? 3. page 5, lines 89-96 The phrase (lines 92- 96) is too long and confused. It is not clear whether the lower resolution and lower sensitivity of 2H-NMR is advantage or disadvantage? Misprints must be eliminated. 4. Figure 1 represents the transformation of the 1H-NMR spectrum of mitochondrion isolated from rat liver isolated from rat liver and that of aqueous extract of the rat liver homogenate. There are two questions 1) what is the difference in 1H-NMR spectra between mitochondrion from different isolations and 2) when 1H-NMR spectrum of aqueous extract was recorded – immediately after preparation, or one day after? 5. Several comments to Figure 2. 1) Figure 2 shows that for about 30 hrs the amplitudes of 1H-NMR and 2H-NMR coincide. 1H-NMR spectrum immediately after preparation is given in figure 1. On the page 8, lines 159-160, it is said that signals in the 2H-NMR spectrum start to appear only after incubation for about 24 hrs. After another day of incubation, the 2H-NMR spectrum is completely formed. Interestingly, what it represents immediately after sample preparation? But on the same page below (lines 173-174) it is said: “During the first 27 hrs after isolation of mitochondrion, the kinetics of the formation of proton- and deuterium-containing metabolites are similar due to the insignificant amounts of the low molecular mass (LMM) compounds released from the destroyed mitochondria.” 2) The samples that were used for constructing Figure 2 must be indicated in figure legend. 3) How the authors explain shoulder at about 50 hrs on the 1H-NMR spectrum? 6. Figure 3A and 3B. The identical figure legends puzzle the reader. The difference is explained only on the page 9, lines 185-188. It must be given in figure legend. It would be good to indicate when these spectra were recorded in time scale after samples preparation. 7. Figure 3 and Figure 5 shows 2H-NMR spectra of the aqueous extract of liver homogenates treated with sodium azide and antibiotics. It is claimed that the action of sodium azide and antibiotics is the same. It is not clear when 2H-NMR spectra presented in Figure 3 D was recoded. To what spectrum in Figure 5 it corresponds? How the author could comment the difference of spectra presented in Figure 3D and 5?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Good
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
New approach for examination of the biological fluids is developed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No Comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Looking at microbial metabolism by high-resolution 2H-NMR spectroscopy (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.101v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 23, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
