Review History for Influence of sediment characteristics on the composition of soft-sediment intertidal communities in the northern Gulf of Mexico [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Influence of sediment characteristics on the composition of soft-sediment intertidal communities in the northern Gulf of Mexico To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 6th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 2nd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 19th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 20th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Linsheng Song
·
May 20, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have made corresponding change according to the reviewers’ comments, I am pleased to Accept this submission.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 19, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Linsheng Song
·
May 2, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
We invite you to submit a revised version of the manuscript that carefully addresses all the critical points of both reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 24, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
To examine how sediment characteristics and infaunal community composition were related along northern Gulf of Mexico coast, Kyle Coblentz and his colleagues sampled and analyzed intertidal infaunal communities from 7 sites covering common habitat types. They found that nearly 70% of the variations in the composition of the communities could be explained by salinity, median grain size, and total organic content. A couple questions are listed as follows for the authors to consider. 1.In Figure 2, the “Taxa Observed” keeps increasing linearly for samples from ELMS, however, it reaches plateau very quick for samples from ELMBB. How do the authors explain this observation, especially when the two sites are close to each other? I am wondering whether it would be better to include more samples into current study for the sites that “Taxa observed” are far from reaching the plateau? 2.It would benefit the readers if the author could discuss a little bit more about the Shannon’s diversity of samples from different sites. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Influence of sediment characteristics on the composition of soft-sediment intertidal communities in the northern Gulf of Mexico (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1014v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 29, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this manuscript, the authors investigated the relationship between the sediment characteristics and the composition of soft-sediment intertidal communities in the northern Gulf of Mexico. The authors collected 69 intertidal infaunal communities at seven sites covering common habitat types. These communities were grouped into 4 distinct groups on the basis of faunal composition. The variation in the composition of the communities was explained by salinity, median grain size and total organic content.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
All the experiments are well designed. All the experimental procedures were described clearly in this paper.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
All the findings in this paper were based on solid data and careful experimental design. The results are clearly presented.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Minor concerns: 1.The summary of environmental variables measured at seven sites could be presented as figures like plots instead of table so that the differences between sites are better presented. 2.Phylogenetic tree could be used to show the relationship of isolated invertebrates at each site. 3.Abbreviations for each site just need to be defined at the first appearance. No need to define it every time. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Influence of sediment characteristics on the composition of soft-sediment intertidal communities in the northern Gulf of Mexico (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1014v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 6, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
