Review History for Is grazing exclusion effective in restoring vegetation in degraded alpine grasslands in Tibet, China? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Is grazing exclusion effective in restoring vegetation in degraded alpine grasslands in Tibet, China? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 26th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 11th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 21st, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 24th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Harpinder Sandhu
·
May 24, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised version incorporates the suggestions by two reviewers and it improves the overall clarity of the paper.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 21, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Harpinder Sandhu
·
May 11, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please address major concerns about the methods as pointed out by both reviewers.
label_author_1
Zhanhuan Shang ·
Apr 23, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
General comments The study had showed the result of short time grazing bar on alpine grassland, which had very interesting point to guideline the grassland management in Tibet. The paper just showed the vegetation result, which just a part of restoration of degraded grassland, and should included the soil system. However, the paper had very good value to discuss the grazing exclusion’ impact on Tibetan plateau, which is the important data source for data gathering in the point of grazing system. Then I recommended to accept this paper after a minor revision. Specific comments 1.The paper need to clear the method of grazing exclusion of whole year or just seasonal exclusion? 2.In the introduction, you should state the very highlight gap of your study and the past progress of grazing exclusion in Tibetan plateau. 3.Some background information of grazing system, grazing pressure, animal kind of grazing, etc, should be present in the method part. 4.Biomass is the total biomass of all plant root? Live root, died root? 5.Line 159: you should make a very clear of the ‘ni’ in the equation, why you did use the biomass as the Pi? 6.Line 160: the ’total observed number of species in the community’, please define the ‘community’ , the area? The scale? Because of the diversity index should be based on the ‘area’. 7.You did the different grassland type, to show the grazing exclusion result, however, is reasonable of Two-way ANOVA, which included the grassland type? Becaue of the grassland type is, in you study, from different county, and which is different definitely. Then, maybe, I think you can use One-way ANOVA. 8.Some new reference should be cited, such as ‘The sustainable development of grassland-livestock systems on the Tibetan plateau: problems, strategies and prospects, 2014, Rangeland Journal’, ‘Enhancing the Resilience of Coupled Human and Natural Systems of Alpine Rangelands on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, The Rangeland Journal, Volume 37 2015’. 9.A small suggestion for analysis the result which depend you. ‘ you can analysis the relationship between the restoration’s effect and site’s Altitude, maybe it is interesting. This suggestion just up to your interesting to do or not. Cite this review as
Shang Z ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Is grazing exclusion effective in restoring vegetation in degraded alpine grasslands in Tibet, China? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1020v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 7, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The grazing exclusion by fencing has been widely used as a mainly restoration measure of alpine grassland in Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, and there are lack of evaluation of ecological benefits from grazing exclusion management in recent years, so this manuscript is an interesting study that is a detail investigation of the effects of grazing exclusion on alpine grassland ecosystem in Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. However, it has some shortcomings that should be corrected to improve the value to the reader. In particular, the methodology still needs some explanation if the majority of readers are to find value in the paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
More detail of field measurements is required in the text on how this was done. Please clarify why used 0.5m*0.5m quadrats in different alpine grassland types? Which belowground plate components? (L134);
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
1. Author should discuss the impacts of climatic condition on the grazing exclusion effects on alpine grassland ecosystem. 2. In the Table 2, please indicate what data was cited from Wu et al (2013)? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Is grazing exclusion effective in restoring vegetation in degraded alpine grasslands in Tibet, China? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1020v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 26, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
