Review History for Responses to simulated nitrogen deposition by the neotropical epiphytic orchid Laelia speciosa [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Responses to simulated nitrogen deposition by the neotropical epiphytic orchid Laelia speciosa To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 17th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 29th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 19th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 24th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Harpinder Sandhu
·
May 24, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am satisfied with the revised version as it has addressed the issues raised by both reviewers. It also reads well.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 19, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Harpinder Sandhu
·
Mar 29, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As pointed by reviewers, and in my opinion, it is an interesting study that warrants publication in a scientific journal. Moreover, the manuscript has improved considerably from the first set of reviews. However, as noticed in this second set of review, there are still some sections (particularly introduction and discussion) and several comments raised by both reviewers, that needs to be addressed before this manuscript could be acceptable for publication. Please pay careful attention to the suggestions by both reviewers in your revisions. I look forward to receiving a revised version.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 24, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript addresses the influence of the increment on N deposition over an orchid species. The authors followed the reviewers´suggestions and made a series changes that turned the manuscript, in a general way, much more interesting to the reader. Some points need to be reconsidered, though. First of all, English needs to be revised again by a native-speaker. The authors should also standardize the use of 'nitrogen'/'carbon' or 'N'/'C' throughout the manuscript. Once again, I will talk about the Abstract and Introduction sections here, since there are no available boxes for them below. The description of the results is confusing at both abstract and Results section. Still regarding the abstract, the authors should present the dose used during the greenhouse glass experiment. Once again, the Introduction section needs to follow a more logical sequence. The new version is poorly detailed at some points; unfortunately, I missed more information about the usefulness to do a greenhouse glass experiment or to use an endangered orchid species as plant model.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The Methods section is better fitted now, with a good description about the methodology used. The removal of the section comparing the orchids from the two sites made the manuscript more clear. However, I do not understand why the authors evaluate variation on organ production (flowers, pseudobulbs and leaves) with increasing N inputs if they do not discuss this issue at the end of the manuscript. Thus, they should either exclude this subsection at the Methods and Results section or mention it during the Discussion section. Still regarding the Methods, I keep not thinking that drying leaves at 80oC is proper when determining elemental and isotopic compositions of a plant material. Even such leaves are succulent, as the authors correctly pointed. So, my concern keeps as a suggestion for their next studies. In relation to the statistical procedures, I wonder why the authors evaluated data distribution, found out that data normality was ok and still decided to use a non-parametric test. If they decided to use this kind of test instead of a common ANOVA, it would be preferable if they explain their reasons.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The Results section should be written in a simpler way. The way the authors presented, it is a little bit confusing (for example, lines 160-166). After all findings, the authors should present the P-value of the analysis, not only in table of figures. One last comment about the results: I believe that the removal of the lines from the figures would ease the visualization of the mean values and their variation. The Discussion section, as I commented earlier, lacks any topic about the growth/production of new organs. Once again, they should either exclude this topic at the Methods and Results section or mention it during the Discussion section. The part discussing the preferential use of NH4+ or NO3- should be improved. As increased N-availability may lead to higher residual d15N values in a system, the authors should discuss about the fractionation processes during N transformation in soils, and also present the isotopic composition of the N coumponds in soils. They should make a deeper discussion about this preferential use of NH4+ they found.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Responses to simulated nitrogen deposition by the neotropical epiphytic orchid Laelia speciosa (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1021v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 28, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors present a very interesting data to answer an important question: what would be the effect of increased nitrogen deposition on the ecophysiology of a vascular epiphyte? However, I believe that the authors should make certain amendments before their item can be published. First of all, despite that epiphytes are considered as one of groups most susceptible to changes in atmospheric deposition, the authors make no reference to the subject, and didn´t compare their results with one of the few case studies inside of epiphytes (see list of suggested reading). I believe that it would be very important to introduce this subject, both in the introduction and in the discussion section. Furthermore it intrigues me that the author does not describe the species in the Materials and methods. Also in this section, it is important that the authors justify the doses of N for their treatments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
In the statistical part the author has to justify why use a parametric post-hoc test in a nonparametric test; and why used the Holm-Sidak post-hoc test instead of Tukey test.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
In the results section is important to note that there are statistically significant differences in all measured parameters, except for the production of flowers and the C15. It is also very important that the authors note, that once the ANOVA given that there weren´t significant differences, not posteriori tests are performed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
suggested reading Population ecology of epiphytic angiosperms: a review D Mondragon, T Valverde, M Hernandez-Apolinar - Trop. Ecol, 2015 Growth of epiphytic bromeliads in a changing world: the effects of CO 2, water and nutrient supply G Zotz, W Bogusch, P Hietz, N Ketteler - Acta Oecologica, 2010 - Elsevier Growth in epiphytic bromeliads: response to the relative supply of phosphorus and nitrogen G Zotz, R Asshoff - Plant Biology, 2010 Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Responses to simulated nitrogen deposition by the neotropical epiphytic orchid Laelia speciosa (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1021v0.1/reviews/2 External reviews were received for this submission. These reviews were used by the Editor when they made their decision, and can be downloaded below. Download Original Submission (PDF)
Download external reviews
- submitted Feb 17, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
