Review History for Neurodevelopmental problems and extremes in BMI [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Neurodevelopmental problems and extremes in BMI To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 22nd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 25th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on May 4th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 26th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
David Meyre
·
May 26, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The reviewer's comments have been well taken care of and the manuscript is now suitable for publication. With my best wishes
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 4, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Meyre
·
Aug 25, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear authors, Please make sure to address the inspired comments of the two reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 12, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Results are properly reported.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is sound
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Findings are valid. The assessments used in the study measure the clinical manifestation of interest.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Authors study the association between ASD, ADHD and BMI in a large twin cohort. They confirm results on the well known co-morbidity BMI and neurodevelopmental disorders. The major comment pertains to the analysis of the twin data that they analyze as a regular cohort. How do authors account for the inter-correlation between ASD and BMI measures between twins ? This is not discussed in the methods. They don’t use the power of this large twin cohort. For example, they don’t use concordance rate of any of their measures in the analyses. This may help understand the directionality between these symptoms. In the Introduction: Authors state that “…Given the nature of the present study, we used only data representing the ages 9 (n=828 boys & n=790 girls) and 12-year-old (n=640 boys & 676 girls) children from Karlberg BMI reference (Karlberg et al. 2001)…” This needs to be more specific. : Given the geographic origin and the age range of the cohort … Authors state that “…The present information on BMI in twins (older than 3 years old) compared to singletons is contradictory (Estourgie-van Burk et al. 2010; Pietilainen et al. 1999; Wilson 197)…” This sentence needs clarification and brief introduction. Authors state that “…Over the last few decades, the prevalence of ADHD seem to have increased from 2%–5% (Kadesjo & Gillberg 1998) to 7%–9% (Scahill & Schwab-Stone 2000) in school-aged children, while the prevalence of autism increased from 0.04% (Lotter 1966) to 1.0% (Baird et al. 2006) for the broader spectrum of ASDs…” For ASD, there is no evidence that the prevalence increased. Authors should handle this concept with caution. This should be replaced by “…diagnoses of ASD have increased…” Authors state that “…An association between the two trends, namely the increase in BMI and the increased frequency of NDPs, has previously been suggested and investigated in a few studies, mostly in adults. Their conclusions are contradictory…” Authors need to be very clear on the literature data. There are many studies on obesity and neuropsychiatric disorders occurring as co-morbidities, but there is no convincing data on the association between the increase of BMI and the increase of neuropsychiatric disorders. The papers that authors cite study comorbidity. This should be modified. Methods: What is the proportion of homozygous versus fraternal twins ? In the Aims : There is only lines on aim one in the introduction. There is a whole page related to aim 3 in the introduction. Aims and introduction should be prioritized accordingly. Figure1 Is important but is not the main finding. Should be moved to supplemental data. Or a much more compact version should be designed for the main text. Results: The major comment pertains to the analysis of the twin data. How do authors account for the inter-correlation between ASD and BMI measures between twins ? This is not discussed in the methods. They have access to a very large twin cohort but do not use concordance rate of any of their measures in the analyses. This may help understand the directionality between these symptoms. Authors should perform analyses on the BMI acceleration between 9 and 12 in the different groups. Authors should investigate the effect of the “gender x ASD measure” interaction term on BMI in table 2. Given that this is a twin cohort, it is puzzling that the authors did not study the twin concordance rate of BMI, ASD and BMI-ASD as a comorbidity. It would add a significant element to the study. Figure 2: The n should be given for the different BMI categories on the x axis. In particular, extreme low BMI with ADHD or ASD amount to small numbers. Discussion : Authors should be cautious and only use the term “association”. The directionality of these associations is unknown. In particular, authors state that “…inattention is a reason for both low and high extreme weights…” Authors should discuss the age effect. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Neurodevelopmental problems and extremes in BMI (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1024v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 25, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Please see "General comments for the author" section
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Please see "General comments for the author" section
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In their manuscript entitled "Neurodevelopmental problems and extremes in BMI", Kerekes and colleagues investigate the relationship between BMI and ADHD and ASD in a dataset derived from parental telephone interviews of ~12,000 twins (ages 9 and 12). The study is important given that the question of the relationship between BMI and neurodevelopmental disorders is an interesting one, however I have a number of comments which I believe need to be addressed: Major points 1.The authors do not justify their selection of BMI z-score cut-offs for low/high and extreme BMI. The choice of cut-offs should be justified, as this may influence the results of the study. How robust are the results to changes in the cut-offs used? 2.Given that the study is reliant on information supplied by the parents in telephone interviews, have the authors assessed whether accuracy of reporting of weight/height is uniform across the different categories (i.e. it may also be possible that height/weight measurements reported by parents of children with neurodevelopmental disorders may be more inaccurate)? If accuracy of reporting is not uniform across the categories this may influence the results of this study. 3.The authors do not specify whether children on medication which may influence weight were excluded from the study. This should be specified. 4.In the Results: (1) Twins BMI standard compared to singletons section, the authors state: "However, in our study generally extreme underweight and extreme overweight (with the exception of 12-year old girl's population) are more extreme." More details should be provided here. 5.In the Results section (2), P-values should be provided throughout this section. Minor points 1.The introduction seems unnecessarily long, and should be kept more succinct. 2.There are a number of errors in grammar and vocabulary throughout the manuscript, and so it would benefit from being edited by a native English speaker. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Neurodevelopmental problems and extremes in BMI (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1024v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 22, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
