Review History for Life as a bachelor: quantifying the success of an alternative reproductive tactic in male blue monkeys [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Life as a bachelor: quantifying the success of an alternative reproductive tactic in male blue monkeys To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 17th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 8th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 31st, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 31st, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ann Hedrick
·
May 31, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your conscientious attention to detail in your revisions.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 31, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ann Hedrick
·
May 8, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please revise, paying particular attention to the comments of the more critical reviewer.
label_author_1
Monte McCrossin ·
May 7, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript is a highly significant contribution to our knowledge of primate behavioral and reproductive ecology, especially with regard to cercopithecine monkeys living in single male/multiple female groups. Years ago, the eminent primatologist Thelma Rowell wrote a paper concerning sexual dimorphism among polygynous primates in which she emphasized the critical and ill-understood role of competition between bachelor males. This long-term study by Roberts & Cords about blue monkeys in Kakamega forest adds important new knowledge concerning group dynamics not only among adults that are invested within the mating system but also among the bachelor males.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
everything concerning the experimental design is thorough and excellent
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
There is no doubt that the findings are completely valid.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
As a person who mainly studies fossil monkeys, its great to see such stellar research which can potentially be very useful for primate paleontologists in attempting to infer the mating systems of ancestral primates. Cite this review as
McCrossin ML ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Life as a bachelor: quantifying the success of an alternative reproductive tactic in male blue monkeys (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1043v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 8, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See below
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This manuscript exams factors contributing to extra-group male reproductive success and attempts to model the fitness consequences of being a group leader or bachelor male. The first portion of the paper – the analysis of bachelor reproductive success is very interesting and impressive, especially given the challenges of identifying and tracking bachelor males. The study certainly shows the value of long-term field studies of animal behavior. About this part of the paper I have only some minor comments and suggestions. Ln 192. It says that success increased by a factor of 1.01 for each Elo rating. I take it that this means that for each point in the Elo ranking a male’s chance of success increases by 1%. Is that correct. The way it is written it is somewhat difficult to interpret and I would suggest that authors try to find more plain language to describe the effect of rank on success. The fact that rank matters is important and sets the stage for thinking about the traits in males that make them more competitive and thus are likely to be under selection. To me, this seemed like an important finding that doesn’t really stand out in the results. A general comment about this section is that it might be useful to provide a table or chart of some sort that shows that number of bachelor males seen in each group over some period of time throughout the study (per month? per quarter? ) to give the readers a clearer sense of what the dynamics are. The that end, a similar chart/table from the perspective of bachelors may be interesting as well – for any given bachelor how often do he face competition with other bachelors, how many groups does he visit in a given breeding season? Etc. The second section of the paper – the modeling of fitness outcomes for bachelor versus resident males – I found more problematic. The approach used here assumes that resident male and bachelor males are distinct tactics despite the fact that the authors repeatedly mention that resident males are bachelors both before and after residency. While the authors observed that 9 of 10 males that were seen as bachelors and residents did not reproduce as bachelors, it seems like a logical leap to then conclude that the siring success of a male who attains residency is dependent on the residency period. Are they any worse at attaining bachelor matings than bachelors? Are they dying when they are deposed? Treating resident males and committed bachelors as distinct entities to model lifetime fitness would only make sense if they were distinct strategies, which I am not convinced that they are. In the paper, the authors appear to conclude that resident reproductive success is determined by his tenure as a resident, with little success as a bachelor. Is it really the case that males that become residents have lower success as bachelors compared to committed bachelors? If that is the case, is it due to other factors such as age (which I appreciate the authors will not know for many if not most bachelors). For example, one could imagine that all young males have low siring success and are generally less competitive. At some peak age, some males are able to acquire groups while others stay as bachelors, but are among the most competitive bachelors. As males age, they may senesce and become less competitive, loosing their residency status and returning to the bachelor pool. Under such a scenario we might appear that resident males are poor competitors as bachelors, when in fact they are merely young or old. Additionally, such a model highlights why it is likely to be unreasonable to consider bachelor success as a steady rate of reproduction throughout a male’s adulthood. Another piece of evidence that could provide some insight into whether or not committed bachelors are a different strategy than resident males would be if there were differences in longevity. It is plausible that residency could shorten a male’s lifespan, especially if deposed residents tended to be wounded or killed in take-overs. From the fact that the authors mention that some residents return to the bachelor pool, this seems not to be the case. In any event, male life history in a species with male dispersal is very hard to measure and not something that I would expect the authors to be able to address directly, but perhaps it is worth thinking about. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Life as a bachelor: quantifying the success of an alternative reproductive tactic in male blue monkeys (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1043v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 17, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
