Review History for US adolescents’ friendship networks and health risk behaviors: a systematic review of studies using social network analysis and Add Health data [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History US adolescents’ friendship networks and health risk behaviors: a systematic review of studies using social network analysis and Add Health data To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 14th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 8th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 31st, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 3rd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Bob Patton
·
Jun 3, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank your for your resubmission. I note that you have addressed the concerns of the reviewers, and have made adequate justification where you have chosen not to make suggested changes. I am pleased to accept your article for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 31, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Bob Patton
·
May 8, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Thank you for your submission. The reviewers felt that the paper was of interest, but that there are several areas that require further work' particularly with reference to the validity of your findings. Please note the attached comments and amend accordingly.
label_author_1
Masuma Rahim ·
Apr 28, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Some elements should be more detailed. Line 36: Explain 'individual adolescent risk taking behaviours' in greater depth Line 43: Describe SNA more. Perhaps a diagram would help illustate the network mapping Line 59: Do you mean 'either' or 'both'? This needs clarifying Line 101: Provide a reference Line 106: Explain why this is problematic Line 111: Is under-21 considered adolescent?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Line 177: 86-73 is 13, but you say you had 14 papers (error carried forward to PRISMA diagram) The number of decimal places used when reproting p-values needs to be consistent A table showing the samples, research question and brief findsing for each paper might be useful
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Line 472: I would avoid use of the word 'claim'
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The paper is a somewhat verbose and could do with some tightening up. It is an interesting paper, but would read better if it were a little more concise. Cite this review as
Rahim M ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "US adolescents’ friendship networks and health risk behaviors: a systematic review of studies using social network analysis and Add Health data (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1052v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 6, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The aim of the manuscript to systematically review the existing research on adolescent risky health behaviours using Social Network Analysis (SNA) and the ADD Health data. The authors did a systematic and thorough job on identifying the relevant studies. I feel that the introduction can be improved by better organisation. For example, the background subheading can be removed and merge the sections into Introduction. Throughout the introduction I feel that too much quotations were used (throughout the manuscritp) and the text should be paraphrased (except the items in the ADD Health that were used). The sections under Background, rather than just summarising the prevalent rate of each risky behaviour, previous findings of the effect of friendship or peer network/group should be added to each behaviour as well. This would set up for discussions about how using SNA to examine the effect of peer network would advance new knowledge in this field. In addition, in these sections some of the rates quoted do not match the ones presented in Figure 1 so Figure 1 seems irrelevant here.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The identification of studies was done in a systematic way. There is a couple of issues regarding the Method. What is the reason for limited the publication dates from 2003 onwards? One article was identified from 2001 and later in the manuscript it was noted that SNA is a relatvely new technique anyway so limiting the dates seems to be unnecessary. At Ln188, rather than referring the methodological quality criteria to previous review, it would be clearer to readers to have a proper description and background of the MQS here.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
At Ln 207, it is not clear what the inclusion of the impact factors and the list of journals here would be relevant to the study goal. The presentation of findings under the 2nd research question seems repetitive at times and it was not clear which study the authors were referring to. For example, at Ln 284, it is not clear which "first study" the authors was referring to; "researchers" and "authors" were used in the next several sections which are findings of the one study. The names of the study author should be used instead to avoid confusion. Findings from Fujimoto & Valante was presented in almost 2 pages but findings from the other 7 studies were only presented in 2 paragraphs. What is the significant of this particular study? And there was no further discussion later on in Discussion. At Ln 289, descriptions of the friendship dyads are repeated here and it seems to retardant. Other results of significance presented for other behaviours looks like all only significant results were included? What about insignificant results? In addition to p-values, coefficients should also be included. Moreover, it is not clear whether Figures 3 and 4 were created based on the review findings or just generic diagrams to aid understanding of the different types of dyads. The Discussion was not written in a way to highlight the unique findings of the review. The authors listed some advantages using SNA to study peer network (from Ln 469 to 504) but these information was unique from this review. What data SNA can analysed and what research questions can be examined is already known. Also I'm not sure if a cut-off of 4.5 of the MQS was appropriate; given that the average score was only slightly above 4.5 there is a need to discuss any studies that have a score of 4.5 and below. It is confusing to read sections on discussing weakness of the reviewed studies and the limitations on the current review right after. Given the matrix of the reviewed studies included key findings, I'm not sure why it was only included in the appendix and not in the manuscript? Relating to this, it was mentioned that some studies did based on theories / theoretical frameworks in the text but under the "theory" column in the table it was listed "none" against all studies so there seems to be a mismatch here. Also under the "key findings" column paraphrasing should be used and not direct quotations from the reviewed studies.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "US adolescents’ friendship networks and health risk behaviors: a systematic review of studies using social network analysis and Add Health data (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1052v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 14, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
