Review History for Imbalance in the blood antioxidant system in growth hormone-deficient children before and after 1 year of recombinant growth hormone therapy [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Imbalance in the blood antioxidant system in growth hormone-deficient children before and after 1 year of recombinant growth hormone therapy To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 13th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 30th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 27th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on June 4th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 5th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Jan M Wit
·
Jun 5, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for the further improvements.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 4, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Jan M Wit
·
May 31, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please see editorial revisions of text and tables (attached as a PDF and also available to you as the original Word docs).
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 27, 2015
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jan M Wit
·
Mar 30, 2015
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
General comments: The ms is difficult to read, because of extremely poor English style and grammar. There is quite a large difference in ages of the GHD groups and controls. The authors do not provide information whether this may cause (part of) the difference between markers of the antioxydant system between GHD children and controls. The changes after 12 months GH treatment were small, and only reached statistical significance for TAC. The direction of TAC and non-protein thiols was into the direction of controls, but this was not the case for SOD. I have the impression that the number of patients is insufficient to answer the research question. Specific comments: Fig 1 is difficult to interpret, and offers the same information as the table. It can be omitted. Table 1: It would be better if IGF-I would be expressed as SDS; the same applies to IGFBP-3
label_author_1
Laura Audi ·
Mar 2, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript PeerJ-3977 “Imbalance in the blood antioxidant system in growth hormone-deficient children before and after 1 year of recombinant growth hormone therapy” asseses several parameters of the blood anti-oxidant system in control and GH-deficient (GHD) children (the last, before and at the end of a 12-month-period of GH therapy). They detect a baseline imbalance in GHD patients, as previously demonstrated in other studies, with significantly decreased anti-oxidant parameters and increased oxidant activity. At the end of the 1st year of GH therapy, total anti-oxidant capacity has significantly increased and is no longer different from that in controls while the SOD activity has not lowered. The conclusion would be that the anti-oxidant system improved while not sufficiently to completely normalise. Results go in the same direction than previously reported studies. The study is therefore not novel but is certainly interesting. Unfortunately, the manuscript is hampered by English language problems that even render difficult the understanding of some sentences. In that sense, the manuscript could be corrected. A part from the English language the following observations would need improvement: -1) Abstract: reword Results description! -2) GHD diagnosis should be explained in more detail: following the 2 GH secretion stimulation tests and the image studies, GHD was diagnosed when GH peak values (in both tests?) were under 10 ng/ml (not pg/L). Was the type of GHD considered idiopathic, was it isolated in all patients? -3) IGF-1 assay type may be either an ELISA or a RIA but not both. -4) GH assay is not mentioned. It should be with the standard used for calibration. Depending on the assay, the limit of 10 ng/ml may be too high, and the majority of present-day assays are using cut-off values of 7.5-7.0 ng/ml to ascertain a GH secretion deficiency. -4) Results description is confusing, mainly the 2nd paragraph of the “Antioxidant status”: try to describe Table 2 results straightforward! -5) Discussion: the paragraph “After treatment .... “ is impossible to understand. Try to write it simply and clearly! -6) “The tendency to improve ...... during rGH therapy is evident, but ......” -7) Figure 1 legend: “.... were normalised on values of GHD patients ....” -8) Table 1 title is erroneous. -9) Mention which standards were used to transform anthropometric parameters into SDS. -10) Can the authors transform the IGF-1 and IGFBP-3 values into SDS for age and sex?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
2) GHD diagnosis should be explained in more detail: following the 2 GH secretion stimulation tests and the image studies, GHD was diagnosed when GH peak values (in both tests?) were under 10 ng/ml (not pg/L). Was the type of GHD considered idiopathic, was it isolated in all patients? -3) IGF-1 assay type may be either an ELISA or a RIA but not both. -4) GH assay is not mentioned. It should be with the standard used for calibration. Depending on the assay, the limit of 10 ng/ml may be too high, and the majority of present-day assays are using cut-off values of 7.5-7.0 ng/ml to ascertain a GH secretion deficiency. -4) Results description is confusing, mainly the 2nd paragraph of the “Antioxidant status”: try to describe Table 2 results straightforward!
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Findings are not novel
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript PeerJ-3977 “Imbalance in the blood antioxidant system in growth hormone-deficient children before and after 1 year of recombinant growth hormone therapy” asseses several parameters of the blood anti-oxidant system in control and GH-deficient (GHD) children (the last, before and at the end of a 12-month-period of GH therapy). They detect a baseline imbalance in GHD patients, as previously demonstrated in other studies, with significantly decreased anti-oxidant parameters and increased oxidant activity. At the end of the 1st year of GH therapy, total anti-oxidant capacity has significantly increased and is no longer different from that in controls while the SOD activity has not lowered. The conclusion would be that the anti-oxidant system improved while not sufficiently to completely normalise. Results go in the same direction than previously reported studies. The study is therefore not novel but is certainly interesting. Unfortunately, the manuscript is hampered by English language problems that even render difficult the understanding of some sentences. In that sense, the manuscript could be corrected. A part from the English language the following observations would need improvement: -1) Abstract: reword Results description! -2) GHD diagnosis should be explained in more detail: following the 2 GH secretion stimulation tests and the image studies, GHD was diagnosed when GH peak values (in both tests?) were under 10 ng/ml (not pg/L). Was the type of GHD considered idiopathic, was it isolated in all patients? -3) IGF-1 assay type may be either an ELISA or a RIA but not both. -4) GH assay is not mentioned. It should be with the standard used for calibration. Depending on the assay, the limit of 10 ng/ml may be too high, and the majority of present-day assays are using cut-off values of 7.5-7.0 ng/ml to ascertain a GH secretion deficiency. -4) Results description is confusing, mainly the 2nd paragraph of the “Antioxidant status”: try to describe Table 2 results straightforward! -5) Discussion: the paragraph “After treatment .... “ is impossible to understand. Try to write it simply and clearly! -6) “The tendency to improve ...... during rGH therapy is evident, but ......” -7) Figure 1 legend: “.... were normalised on values of GHD patients ....” -8) Table 1 title is erroneous. -9) Mention which standards were used to transform anthropometric parameters into SDS. -10) Can the authors transform the IGF-1 and IGFBP-3 values into SDS for age and sex? Cite this review as
Audi L ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Imbalance in the blood antioxidant system in growth hormone-deficient children before and after 1 year of recombinant growth hormone therapy (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1055v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 13, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
