Review History for Factor structure of the happiness-increasing strategies scales (H-ISS): activities and coping strategies in relation to positive and negative affect [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Factor structure of the happiness-increasing strategies scales (H-ISS): activities and coping strategies in relation to positive and negative affect To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 15th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 21st, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 27th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 8th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ada Zohar
·
Jun 8, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for revising and resubmitting your manuscript. The current manuscript is accepted for publication. The discussion makes it clear now what your study contributes to our understanding of happiness increasing strategies. A weakness of the discussion is that you speak of prediction, while in fact modeling data that is taken at one time point. To the unsophistocated reader this might suggest causality, or at least precedence of one measurement over the other; however I believe the PeerJ readership will interpret this as meaning explained variance or association.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 27, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ada Zohar
·
Feb 21, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors: As you will see the reviewers believed this to be a good and publishable study. I agree with reviewer #1 that it would be greatly improved by minor revisions. I particularly feel that the Discussion needs rewriting: the reader should get a better idea of what you feel your results mean and why they are interesting and important. Please revise - you are close to the finish line! Ada
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 25, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is easily understood and well-described, even though there are several typographical errors and places where the English expression is not smooth. It needs to be carefully edited by a native English speaker or at least correct the following: page 3, line 2, delete duplicated comma; page 6 lone 20, add "a" before Structural Equation Model; page 10, line 21, may belong should be "may be explained or attributed to"; line 22, whit should be with; line 24, delete "that"; page 11, line 8, make difference plural and gender plural; line 20, add the before present study; line 24, temporally should be temporary; page 12, line 2 rewrite as "significantly explain PA" and put parentheses around the r squared values; page 18, line 19 Table is misspelled. Also I think the discussion is mostly a repetition of the results and could be more reflective. Is this really a useful inventory? It measures activities or coping strategies for happiness without really assessing whether this truly improves long-term satisfaction with life and doesn't provide a way of distinguishing causes or consequences of emotional states. I'm not taking a strong position about this, but there should be some discussion of how it can be used and what it does and doesn't do in a critical way. Most of the references are self-references, so perhaps this doesn't have wide interest.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The survey procedure is reasonable and well-described. The analytic procedure is appropriate and well-described. The model-fitting is typical of the problems encountered with the assumptions of SEM, which are perhaps unrealistic given that personality and emotionality are complex adaptive processes. As a result i large samples like this many correlations (here even to residuals) are added to force a fit. Perhaps there should be discussion of the limitations of linear models for this material.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusions are well-justified overall. There is one variable loading that surprised me and that is not discussed. "Savor the moment" loads on "social affiliation" but it is hardly that. It is certainly possible to savor the moment in social isolation, so what does it mean that this is loading with the other behaviors involving social isolation? What does this tell us about being present, about adopting a savoring attitude, and its communality with social affiliation?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall the test has a reasonable factor structure and is descriptively useful. I'd like to know more about how the author thinks critically about its conceptual limitations and its utility. Please copyedit the revision to remove typos and poor English grammar as suggested. Please comment on the inadequacies of SEM as a description of dynamic human behavior -- it is ironic that an inventory of a coping strategy, which inherently involves reciprocal interactions to maintain homeostasis or happiness, is analyzed by a linear structural model. And of course your efforts to force a good fit were what people typically encounter when they use this method. You describe the problem but you do not comment on why it is hard to fit such linear models. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Factor structure of the happiness-increasing strategies scales (H-ISS): activities and coping strategies in relation to positive and negative affect (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1059v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 9, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Good language. Much detail about the models are available for the interested reader.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Seems rigorous, well-planned and well carried out.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors discuss the literature regarding reliability of the use of MTurk. A further discussion of this could be of benefit to the paper.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Very interesting paper and the reviewer is impressed by the creative use of MTurk once again from this research group. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Factor structure of the happiness-increasing strategies scales (H-ISS): activities and coping strategies in relation to positive and negative affect (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1059v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 15, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
