Review History for Visualization of oxygen distribution patterns caused by coral and algae [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Visualization of oxygen distribution patterns caused by coral and algae To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 30th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 5th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on June 25th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 25th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Fabiano Thompson
·
Jun 25, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Congratulations on the study.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
- submitted Jun 25, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Fabiano Thompson
·
Jun 5, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
First of all, congratulations for this excellent work. Haas et al. report on the study of oxygen distribution patterns in corals, algae, and coral-algae interfaces. The novel approach disclosed the existence of hypoxic zones at coral-algae interfaces. This study contributes to our understanding on the possible main biochemical drivers of coral reef phase shift worldwide. Please include a paragraph discussing your findings in the context of the phase shift phenomenon and microbialization observed in different reefs, with the massive increase on benthic algae/turf cover and concomitant coral cover sharp decrease (Bruce et al. 2012; Francini et al., 2013; McDole et al. 2012). Minor: “ However, planar optodes have never been used to investigate oxygen distribution patterns in the pelagic environment,” I think instead of pelagic the authors meant coral reef systems.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 15, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Hass et al. reported on the use of planar optodes for exploring dissolved oxygen patterns on coral algae interactions. Albeit simple, it was a very good idea and application of oxygen optodes, which I really appreciate in knowing more about. The manuscript is well written and organized, as well are the results & discussion.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Despite its enormous potential and applications, oxygen optodes are not very well known to oceanographic community. To overcome this it would be interesting if authors could explain a little more on its functioning. It would be interesting if authors can provide more detail in sensor calibration, even providing some calibration curves. It would give readers more confidence on the data presented. It was mentioned a manuscript in preparation, however more information on this ms will be interesting. Please consider display oxygen results also in mL.L-1. Despite autors are using the recommended unity, it is seldom used and most oceanographers uses mL-L-1.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Visualization of oxygen distribution patterns caused by coral and algae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.106v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 30, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
