Review History for Klebsiella pneumoniae subsp. pneumoniae–bacteriophage combination from the caecal effluent of a healthy woman [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Klebsiella pneumoniae subsp. pneumoniae –bacteriophage combination from the caecal effluent of a healthy woman To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 3rd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 22nd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on June 1st, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 9th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Valeria Souza
·
Jun 9, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The paper is very nice and all the queries of reviewers were responded I see no impediment for publication
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 1, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Valeria Souza
·
May 22, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This paper reports the characterization of a bacteriophage isolated from a Klebsiella pneumoniae subsp. pneumoniae obtained from a caecal effluent of a healthy woman, with the idea of better understand the gastrointestinal microbial ecology and the potential therapeutic use of phages to control important disease caused by bacterial pathogenic strains. Both reviewers like the work and the writing. Authors should follow all the comments carefully.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 15, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This study reports the genome sequence and infection capacity of a new phage KLPN1 isolated from a colonoscopy of an healthy female. This phage was found to infect Klebsiella K2 strains, which have been associated with clinical infections. Currently there is reduced information on phages inhabiting the human gut and these can be important not only for a better understanding of virus diversity within the gut, but also because they can be a source of future therapeutic treatments. The study seems to me to be well conducted and the data solid.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I only have one minor comment regarding the sentence on Line409 - 410. Can the authors be a bit more precise here: what is the frequency at which insensitive mutants spontaneously arise?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Of course I think that further characterization of the phage isolated will be needed to evaluate its genomic content and therapeutic potential, but the authors acknowledge this and so I am happy with their discussion of the the results shown.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I found the paper to bring new and interesting results to the literature in this field. To the best of my knowledge the data presented is solid and the paper is clearly written. The introduction is put in a general context and the discussion points out important future work. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Klebsiella pneumoniae subsp. pneumoniae–bacteriophage combination from the caecal effluent of a healthy woman (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1061v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 22, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This paper reports the characterization of a bacteriophage isolated from a Klebsiella pneumoniae subsp. pneumoniae obtained from a caecal effluent of a healthy woman, with the idea of better understand the gastrointestinal microbial ecology and the potential therapeutic use of phages to control important disease caused by bacterial pathogenic strains. This bacteriophage, named KLPN1, was morphologically characterized and classified as a member of the Kp36likevirus genus within the Siphoviridae family. It has the ability of specifically lysate Klebsiella capsular K2 strains, and contains a DNA genome of 40,037 bp in length, composed of 73 ORF encoding for proteins with known and unknown functions. This is a very well written paper that contains important novel information about bacteriophages belonging to the Kp36likevirus genus, which can be used for the control of important infections caused by Klebsiela pneumoniae.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The methodology is described with sufficient information to be reproducible, and the experimental design used is adequate to support the results obtained.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results obtained answer the research questions proposed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Characterization of phage KLPN1 is conducted in a very nice way, and all the findings are very well supported. However, no background of phage 1513 was included, thus, information in this regard needs to be explained or supported with references. It will be useful to include Information about the absence of KLPN1 depolymerase activity with any of the K2 isolates, stated in lines 250 and 251 in Table 2. Figure 2 includes 5 nice images of KLPN1 that show the same characteristics. It could be consider showing only one of them. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Klebsiella pneumoniae subsp. pneumoniae–bacteriophage combination from the caecal effluent of a healthy woman (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1061v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 3, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
