Review History for Metabolic syndrome in hospitalized patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Metabolic syndrome in hospitalized patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 1st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 24th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 28th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on June 7th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 10th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Teresa Seccia
·
Jun 10, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I appreciated the efforts made by the Authors to improve the manuscript.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 7, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Teresa Seccia
·
Jun 4, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I appreciated the efforts made by the Authors to improve the manuscript. However, it needs to be further improved before being considered for publication. I suggest some changes, as detailed below. The most crucial issue is redundancy of the text and replica of data. Specific points Page 2, line 10: … higher – 44.6%. Hyphen is misleading because it could be read as minus. I suggest to replace – with , i.e. (or, alternatively with approximately 44%). Page 2, line 11: I suggest the following change: … in 3598 COPD patients instead of COPD patients (n= 3598) . Similar changes could be made in the next sentence. Page 3. Units could be indicated in BAI formula. Page 4, line 13: Patients’ obstruction were … should be replaced with Patient’s obstruction was …(not were) Page 5. Please remove decimals from age values. E.g. 65 not 65.1. Use only one decimal for FEV1 values. When p is not significant please omit p value in the text (also for the other parameters). Please, avoid duplications of p and r values in the text and tables. Page 5. What is the meaning of the sentences ‘Arterial hypertension has greatest sensitivity but is not specific. Elevated waist circumference has greatest accuracy’ in the paragraph Results. Prevalence of MS? Titles of paragraphs in Results Section. Please omit ‘results’ because you are reporting results in the Results Section. Hence: replace Comorbidity results with Comorbidity, Exacerbation results with Exacerbation, Quality of life results with Quality of life, Pulmonary function test results with Pulmonary function test. Avoid replica of data in the Discussion if data are reported in Results. Likewise, do not report details of the literature if reported in the Introduction. Why did you report the number of patients (n= 3598) enrolled in the Bulgarian study in both Introduction and Discussion? The same is true for Watz’s study (reference 24). Most data reported in the first paragraph of Discussion were previously reported in Introduction. Remove duplicates leaving only comments on differences between previous studies and the present one. Replica of information makes difficult to understand the novelty of your data. Please make smooth and easy the reading of your manuscript. Tables must be numbered. A brief title is only needed. My opinion is that there are still too many references.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 28, 2015
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Teresa Seccia
·
May 24, 2015
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
My review In this study Mekov et al. investigated the prevalence of MS and its correlation with comorbidities in 152 COPD patients admitted for exacerbation. Although facing an interesting topic and the Authors performed a lot of work for data analysis, a number of flaws limits the potential interest of the study. Major issues are the design and sample size. The study, which is retrospective, used a large amount of data collected in 152 patients during their hospital stay. A clear design, e.g. establishing the time period during which patients were observed, is lacking. Moreover, being a prevalence study, size should be accordingly dimensioned. Another issue is that MS entails a syndrome that includes patients at high cardiovascular risk for the presence of a cluster of factors that individually implies limited risk. Exacerbation of COPD is an acute condition that may affect metabolism, possibly resulting in an over- or under-estimation of MS. A further point could be to understand if estimation of MS during exacerbation could be useful for assessing the cardiovascular risk. Since COPD exacerbation is an acute and critical condition, and diabetes may be overt when frailness and other morbidities coexist, appropriate comparisons could be made with studies enrolling acute patients. Specific comments Data are presented in a confusing way, with overlap between previous data of the literature and original data. I strongly suggest a re-arrangement of the entire manuscript giving emphasis to the novel data. Moreover, values should not been reported in both Tables and text, providing redundant duplicates. Some sentences should be rephrased. As an example, in the abstract: MS may also correlate with disease characteristics. The meaning of the statement could be more clearly explained. There are too many references for this type of manuscript. I suggest to carefully take into consideration also the criticisms made by the Reviewer 1 before revising the manuscript. As you can see, some criticisms on methodology and presentation of the results were raised independently by both reviewers.
label_author_1
Emma Espinosa ·
May 15, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is an interesting study evaluating the COPD and metabolic syndrome. Background and prior literature are properly presented, but right from the introduction the authors are "jumping" to the conclusions of their study, justifing unexpected results.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The study was well designed , and the authors show good and expertise knowledge in COPD. The authors are critically taking their results, but I think that concernig metabolic syndrome (MS) they are missing the proper cardiovascular background. MS, as far as I can argue, is taken more as a definition than as a clinical predisposition to develop cardiovascular disease. Patients included in the study mostly had already hypertension, DM or were obese. Utility to use BAI in addition to BMI is not explained The evaluation of Vit.D deficiency and COPD, in my opinion, is not fulfilling the aims of the study. Statistical analysis is properly applied, however not always necessary (correlation between BMI and MS, DM and MS). Conclusions are too much summerized and are not giving the consistent importance to the results: I would suggest to present results apart from the discussion.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Results are really interesting but data about percentage of patients in therapy for COPD, as well as which therapy (short and long acting drugs) are missing. These data are necessary for the pubblication, as well as to explain, at least, part of the results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The results are interesting, and I think a different structure of the paper would give to it the proper relevance. Cite this review as
Espinosa E ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Metabolic syndrome in hospitalized patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1068v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 1, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
