Review History for Comparing cestode infections and their consequences for host fitness in two sexual branchiopods: alien Artemia franciscana and native A. salina from syntopic-populations [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Comparing cestode infections and their consequences for host fitness in two sexual branchiopods: alien Artemia franciscana and native A. salina from syntopic-populations To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 10th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 17th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on June 8th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 12th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alex Ford
·
Jun 12, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Authors, Thank you submitting the revised version of your manuscript. I am pleased to inform you your manuscript has been accepted for publication in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 8, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alex Ford
·
May 17, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors, The reviewers comments are now in and they have made a few minor suggestions you may want to consider.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments. The paper adheres to the formal requirements.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments. The experimental design is sound.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments. Data are interesting and well elaborated.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Although the paper is written in quite good English, the Result section is a little little tricky, due to the long and confusing listing of results. Probably they could be usefully organized in tables. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Comparing cestode infections and their consequences for host fitness in two sexual branchiopods: alien Artemia franciscana and native A. salina from syntopic-populations (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1073v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Boyko Georgiev ·
May 16, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a valuable contribution that substantially expands our knowledge of role of parasites in the course of an ongoing biological invasion. My main criticism is associated with the use of some terms that, in my opinion, are not appropriate. "Mixed population" in the title of the article and throughout as well as "monospecific population" in several places of the text seem incorrect expressions. Population is by definition a group of individuals of one species, or at least individuals that interbreed (which does not seem to be the case with these brine shrimps). My suggestion is to check carefully the text and use "syntopic" or "coexisting" instead of "mixed". In the case of "monospecific", this is "a population existing without co-occurrence of other congeneric species". In addition, some further suggestions, mostly of editorial characters, are presented in the fourth part of this report.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
1.Line 28: Remove parentheses from “(Kellogg, 1906)”. This species was originally described as a member of the genus Artemia and therefore, according to the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature, the name of its author and the year of publication should not be in parentheses. 2.Line 34: Replace “Leach, 1819” with “Linnaeus, 1758” (but retain the parentheses because this species was originally described as a member of another genus. 3.Lines 34-35: Remove parentheses from “(Bowen & Sterling, 1978)”. 4.Line 74 and throughout: I would avoid using the word “endemic” because it has different meaning in epidemiology and in biogeography. Since both epidemiological and biogeographical aspects are relevant in the present paper, I would recommend to use “native” instead “endemic”. 5.Line 109: Replace the semicolon with comma. 6.Line 124 and throughout: Perhaps “unpublished” should be replaced with “in preparation” or “submitted”. 7.Line 139: Replace “mixed” with “syntopic”. Replace “populations” with “population”. 8.Line 163: Replace “a syntopic population“ with “syntopic populations”. 9.Line 275: Replace “specie” with “species”. 10.Line 284: Delete “monopecific”. Cite this review as
Georgiev B ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Comparing cestode infections and their consequences for host fitness in two sexual branchiopods: alien Artemia franciscana and native A. salina from syntopic-populations (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1073v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 10, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
