Review History for Influence of coral and algal exudates on microbially mediated reef metabolism [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Influence of coral and algal exudates on microbially mediated reef metabolism To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 1st, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 18th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on June 27th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 30th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mónica Medina
·
Jun 30, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for carefully addressing the reviewers' feedback. I believe the manuscript has been strengthened by their input.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 27, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mónica Medina
·
May 18, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please follow the comments by both reviewers which I believe will help improve your manuscript.
label_author_1
Kathleen Morrow ·
May 13, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Very nicely written introduction; incorporating both seminal and more recent literature on the topic. Just a few minor comments on Figures: Figure2 – Please state in legend how error bars were calculated, and remind readers that A/A, A/B etc. are representative of Tukey post-hoc statistical significance results. Also, please state in your results section whether your +/- error are SD or SE (see pg 11) Figure5 – Can the positive and negative signs be moved above and below the exudate arrows? This is your call in the end, it just looks a little bit busy and hard to interpret as it is. I like the concept though. Figure6 – What level of water flow is calculated into this model? If any, can you mention in the figure legend? Minor note: Rates is listed twice in the last sentence of the first ending paragraph on pg. 18
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design was clearly conceived and implemented. The authors made every effort to control for confounding influences on complex microbial processes related to the different benthic and pelagic components they examined. I have no additional comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The discussion does a nice job of summarizing a complex story, however it is a bit long and overly detailed in spots. Go over the discussion once more and try to tighten up the wording and reduce any redundancy in the discussion of your results. Otherwise, this was a very enjoyable paper to review and I appreciate the time and effort you clearly put into the design, implementation, and writing of the study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No additional comments Cite this review as
Morrow KM ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Influence of coral and algal exudates on microbially mediated reef metabolism (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.108v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 12, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
General edits: Throughout the document the formatting shifts from double spaces between paragraphs to indented paragraphs – this needs inspection and revision for consistency Pg 9 ln 32 (last line) remove one of the double used ‘the’ Pg 10 ln 7 correct spelling ‘subracted’ to subtracted Pg 16 Para 2 ln 8 – ‘further’ used twice – reword Pg 16 Para 2 ln 9 – ‘watercolumn’ should be two words Pg 18 Para 1 ln 7 – remove the first ‘rates’ Pg 19 Para 1 ln 5 – surrounding should be surroundings Pg 19 Para 1 ln 8 – pacific should be Pacific Pg 19 Para 2 ln 2 – (DO, OC), I think should be (DO, DOC)? Pg 19 Para 3 ln 6 – ‘thee’ should be ‘their’ Pg 20 Para 3 ln 5 - pacific should be Pacific Introduction Acceptable Methods Statistical methods used in the data analyses should be included. Results Acceptable Discussion The authors have provided very interesting results; however, for the first three pages of the discussion the authors just seem to reiterate their results and overall the discussion does not flow smoothly. For example, helpful interpretations or explanations of the significance of a particular point would help carry the reader from one point to the next and would improve the flow. Reviewer suggests that the discussion could be improved by developing the significance or ‘so what’ aspect more thoroughly and explaining the ecological consequences of their statements, particularly since Peer J has a broad audience. Perhaps the authors are relying on previous publications on related experiments (e.g., Haas et al. 2011) for details? That publication read well and was easy to follow the logic and story-line. It may be helpful for the authors to compare this manuscript to the previous. For example: Pg 17 Para 4 – ‘On the contrary....’ this is a single sentence, not a paragraph, this needs further development such as explaining the consequence of shifting to a significantly heterotrophic microbial community metabolism. Pg 18 Para 1 – this paragraph could be improved by explaining further the possible consequences Pg 18 Para 2 – This final statement, seems to beg for further explanation as to ecological value of this situation renders. Pg 20 Para 1- ‘above described mechanisms are of ecological significance....’ This is a good example of providing further explanation or examples defining the significance. Figures Fig. 2 – legend, correct spelling ‘functional’ Fig 2 – legend, reword #3 ‘communities as response’ suggestion: ‘communities as a response’ Fig 4 legend and graphs – Please review this Figure the legend has letter designations and the graphs have number designations. Also the graph’s order does not seem to match. Were statistical differences intended to be shown on the bar graphs? Fig 6 – The text indicates statistics were done, but the graphs do not reflect any statistical differences as in the other graphs, was this intended?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Just to summarize, I think the authors provide interesting and valuable information, but the message does not seem as well developed and as clear as in several of the previous articles by this group. I think the readability of the article could be improved if the authors considered they were writing to a broad audience. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Influence of coral and algal exudates on microbially mediated reef metabolism (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.108v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 1, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
