Review History for Interactions between donor Agreeableness and recipient characteristics in predicting charitable donation and positive social evaluation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Interactions between donor Agreeableness and recipient characteristics in predicting charitable donation and positive social evaluation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 31st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 13th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on June 14th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 17th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
C. Robert Cloninger
·
Jun 17, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your revisions have substantially improved the manuscript, which is a valuable contribution to the literature.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 14, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
C. Robert Cloninger
·
May 13, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers found the paper to be well done and interesting but request that you extend your description of the sample and some other issues that may influence the generalizability of your findings.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The use of Amazon's Mechanical Turk service is not described in enough detail that any evaluation can be made of it. Further, the Analog to Multiple Broadband Inventories is not explained in any detail. Since these are important measures for the study, better descriptions are needed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The sample used needs to be explained in greater detail. Are there any demographics about the sample? The sample itself may have inherent biases. What limitations does the sample pose for the study? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Interactions between donor Agreeableness and recipient characteristics in predicting charitable donation and positive social evaluation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1089v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Ada Zohar ·
May 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is an interesting study, linking self-reported personality traits to potentially relevant actions. The study is well executed. The research well designed to test the study hypotheses, and the execution of the study consistent and rigorous. The writing is clear, and the discussion follows from the results.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Some extra points the authors might consider including in their discussion: 1. Could the results be explained by generosity being driven by similarity? The recipients deemed more worthy by the highly agreeable participants were those made to seem more agreeable. This alternate explanation could be tested by seeing if highly conscientious participants preferentially rewarded more seemingly conscientious targets, more extrovert participants were more generous towards extrovert targets etc. 2. Is there an element of agreeableness that would be affected by the participant perceiving that his/her actions were being observed? Would the participants of the current study have made the same choices if they believed that people in their social environment would learn of their behavior? I raise this issue because it might have relevance to generalizability of the results. Cite this review as
Zohar AH ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Interactions between donor Agreeableness and recipient characteristics in predicting charitable donation and positive social evaluation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1089v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 31, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
