Review History for Coping with shorter days: do phenology shifts constrain aphid fitness? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Coping with shorter days: do phenology shifts constrain aphid fitness? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 28th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 15th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on June 24th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 24th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
David Roberts
·
Jun 24, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for making the correction clear and for publishing in PeerJ, I look forward to handling your next manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 24, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Roberts
·
Jun 15, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
AS you can see from the reviewers comments there are only a few minor issues that I am sure you will be able to deal with.
label_author_1
Christie Bahlai ·
Jun 10, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Looks good
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Looks good
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Good, just one thought on interpretation- see general comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This study is useful, competently completed and interesting. I only have a few comments that I would like the authors to consider. I notice there’s a few issues with sigfigs throughout the MS. Standard errors should be rounded to one significant digit, and means should be rounded to that same digit. - here’s a link with an explanation of that: http://anderson.cm.utexas.edu/AISD/SignificantDigitsAndStandardDeviation.pdf A. pisum, like most aphids, is well known for phenotypic plasticity, but this is usually used to refer to traits that have some sort of irreversibility- ie alate vs apterous morphs. I feel that the concept of phenotypic plasticity is somewhat oversold in the manuscript because of this convention. I appreciate that, under the definition of phenotypic plasticity, any alteration to the biology of an organism in response to environmental conditions is an example, but it leaves me wondering, is what’s being measured here actually phenotypic plasticity, or is it physics? As a general rule, when you heat an insect up, it goes faster (within limits), because its metabolism is tied to temperature. If you take an individual from one temperature regime and put it in a cooler temperature regime, you’ll generally find that whatever trait you’re measuring for will happen slower. I don’t feel that’s necessarily a change in phenotype- If you measure things in metabolic time (ie degree days), you may find the organism is responding exactly the same way. What I think qualifies as phenotypic plasticity in this situation would be differences in slope of response to temperature- say, in response to different day lengths. I’m not sure exactly how the statistics were encoded, and it’s not ideal as there were only two temperature treatments but I think a better way to look for phenotypic plasticity is to compare either temperature response slopes in the two daylight regimes, or compare degree day accumulation by day length, etc. Figure 4 A Broken y axes are used to show differences more effectively, but I find they’re misleading- see: http://faculty.atu.edu/mfinan/2043/section31.pdf B- the X axis is very difficult to understand. I suggest simplifying. Also, I’m having trouble understanding why the lines joining the points after the population crash are dashed. Cite this review as
Bahlai CA ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Coping with shorter days: do phenology shifts constrain aphid fitness? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1103v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 11, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I think the paper is technically OK. The findings are not very novel - it is a standard experiment showing life-history traits of individuals reared under different climate conditions.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is simple and I do not see any problems here.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
As I said before, the data were correctly sampled and analyzed. The experiment was simple, and therefore I do not see any problems with this.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Coping with shorter days: do phenology shifts constrain aphid fitness? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1103v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Jun 12, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This is an interesting paper dealing with a well-studied aspect of aphid biology, the interaction between temperature and photoperiod, but placing it in the context of climate change and host plant synchrony. There are a few minor issues that need clarifying before publication. In particular I would urge the authors to read a bit more of the relevant literature.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Line 113from what part of the plant were the leaves taken and at what growth stage were the plants? Aphid reproduction and development are greatly affected by host plant growth stage (e.g. Dixon, A.F.G. & Wellings, P.W. (1982) Seasonality and reproduction in aphids. International Journal of Invertebrate Reproduction, 5, 83-89. Maiteki, G.A. & Lamb, R.J. (1985) Growth stages of field peas sensitive to damage by the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum. Journal of Economic Entomology, 78, 1442-1448.) Line 145at what growth stage were the plants when placed in the array? Use BCCH stage so that other will be able to replicate your experiment (Leather, S.R. (2010) Precise knowledge of plant growth stages enhances applied and pure research. Annals of Applied Biology, 157, 159-161.).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No comments
Comments for the author
Line 258I would refer the authors to Kenten, J. (1955) the effect of photoperiod and temperature on reproduction in Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris) and on the forms produced. Bulletin of Entomological Research, 46, 599-624, who effectively did the same experiments but under constant temperature conditions. They may also like to read Lamb, R.J. & Mackay, P.A. (1988) Effects of temperature on development rate and adult weight of Australian populations of Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris) (Homoptera: Aphididae). Memoirs of the Entomological Society of Canada, 146, 49-55 and Lamb, R.J. & Mackay, P.A. (1997) Photoperiodism and life cycle plasticity of an aphid, Macrosiphum euphorbiae (Thomas), from central North America. Canadian Entomologist, 129, 1035-1048, who also did very similar work. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #3 of "Coping with shorter days: do phenology shifts constrain aphid fitness? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1103v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 28, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
