Review History for A computational method for the systematic screening of reaction barriers in enzymes: searching for Bacillus circulans xylanase mutants with greater activity towards a synthetic substrate [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A computational method for the systematic screening of reaction barriers in enzymes: searching for Bacillus circulans xylanase mutants with greater activity towards a synthetic substrate To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 22nd, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 5th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on July 3rd, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 3rd, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Freddie Salsbury Jr
·
Jul 3, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Congratulations! I look forward to seeing it in print.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 3, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Freddie Salsbury Jr
·
Jun 5, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The comments from Review 1 seems to be concerned with the constraints of the methodology, but he still considers a suitable and interesting method and recommends accept. As such, the paper is acceptable, but I would like to give you the chance to discuss these issues in response to the review if you would like.
label_author_1
Sergio Martí ·
Jun 5, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article consists in a revision of the method previously published on ref 10 from (almost) the same authors, in which several modifications are introduced in the generation of the different mutants, and the proposed methodology has been applied to a different biological system. All the figures and tables are well presented and clarify the content of he article.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
My concerns about the method rely on the way the Potential Energy Surface (PES) is explored. Authors use an interpolation algorithm which combines both reactant and product states and then combine the results with consequent optimizations. After, they take the energy corresponding to reactants and compare with the maximum of energy of the interpolated structures. This procedure can introduce large errors in the estimation of the activation barriers depending upon the degree of synchronicity of the chemical step: the degree of bond breaking and bond formation could not be the same, as for example in a step-wise reaction. Furthermore, evaluation of high level Single Point Energy (SPE) calculations over low level (semi-empirical methods as PM6) obtained geometries can again mislead the position of the transition states over the PES (for an example see J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 17663). Thus, i believe that the availability of the transition state (TS) geometry its crucial, in order to perform pondered interpolations between the reactant and product states. This information can be obtained from direct TS search, from methods such as self avoiding walk (SAW) or nudged elastic band (NEB), or direct PES exploration (by means of scanning the distances of the bonds involved in the chemical process). I personally believe that the PES exploration should be the most reliable and faster one (as long as the precise nature of the TS is not needed, but the evolution of the bonds are), mostly using semi-empiprical methods, and afterwards this PES can be corrected by mean of high level SPE calculations (of a less dense number of points from the low level surface and then extended by means of cubic or akima spline methods). Additionally, regarding the methodology to produce the mutations (page 12), although i am not aware of the algorithms behind the PyMOL mutagenesis routines, i believe that an small MM optimization of the mutated residue could overcome the problem of obtaining a good guess for MOPAC (mostly with proline and tyrosine mutants as the authors state). Finally, i would be very glad to see further revisions of the proposed methodology incorporating structure dynamics in the protocol (may be parallelizing the generation of each single mutation) in order to incorporate more flexibility if the final conformation of the active site.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Within the limitations of the methodology, the results obtained are well suited and discussed along in the article. Fast methodologies of this kind are very interesting and can provide useful tips and insides of biochemical processes.
Cite this review as
Martí S ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "A computational method for the systematic screening of reaction barriers in enzymes: searching for Bacillus circulans xylanase mutants with greater activity towards a synthetic substrate (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.111v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 28, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Fine as is.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experimental validations would be nice.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Computations are fine only missing experimental validations.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Using computational means the authors have examined single and double mutants of Bacillus circulans xylanase to identify substitutions that affect the activity of this enzyme towards a non-standard substrate. The computations are fine and appear well validated. The only missing feature is experimental validation. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "A computational method for the systematic screening of reaction barriers in enzymes: searching for Bacillus circulans xylanase mutants with greater activity towards a synthetic substrate (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.111v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 22, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
