Review History for A comparison of observation-level random effect and Beta-Binomial models for modelling overdispersion in Binomial data in ecology & evolution [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A comparison of observation-level random effect and Beta-Binomial models for modelling overdispersion in Binomial data in ecology & evolution To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 26th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 21st, 2015. The first revision was submitted on June 16th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on June 22nd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 29th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Nigel Yoccoz
·
Jun 29, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The final minor changes have been made.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 22, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Nigel Yoccoz
·
Jun 19, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
You have answered most referees comments adequately but there are minor issues that need to be addressed: L 54: remove underline «from its total clutch» l. 67: drawn from l. 70: body size l. 71: why “mean probability” – p_i is the probability for each individual. Mean p_i might also be a confusing notation since here it is the constant logit(p_i). It could be a mean(logit(p)) only for the latter model with extra individual variation (and even that could be misused since the logit(mean(p_i)) is not the same as mean(logit(p_i))). If you want ecologists to read through the paper you have to use a precise terminology. l. 98: same comment here, mean.p_i is a bit confusing, it is the logit(p_i), not a mean of anything. l. 117: parenthesis missing after “2001)” l. 136: why a prime for the beta.p_i? l. 223: replace & by and l. 270: remove “,” after “data.” l. 282: replace “incredibly” by “highly” or something equivalent. Figure 4 did not look ok (x axis and legend). Table 2 legend “parameter estimates”, and “body size” (instead of bodysize)
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 16, 2015
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Nigel Yoccoz
·
Apr 21, 2015
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both referees agree that your paper might represent an interesting contribution, but they also raise important issues (and not just with respect to notations and presentations - note that these issues are important, you cannot replicate studies like yours if notations are not precise). Considering different sample sizes would also strengthen your paper.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 19, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper deals with the interesting problem of overdispersion on binomial data. The author presents some simulations studies to verify the suitability of binomial random effects models and beta-binomial models in the situation of overdispersion. The fitting of binomial random effects is carrying out using the R software and the well-known lme4 package. The package runjags was used to fit the beta-binomial models, under the Bayesian framework. In spite of interesting subject the paper has a lot of problems that should be solved to improve its quality. 1) Notation is terrible using non standard mathematical symbols to describe mathematical computations for example in equation (2) the author used mean.pi it should be the expectation of the random variable $h_i$ whose index are not described by the author and using standard mathematical notation should be $E(h_i)$. This kind of non standard notation becomes the paper really hard to read and unclear. 2) Almost all equations are not well described with index non defined or inconsistent, for example the index appears on left-side but not on right-side of equations. Example this can be seen on equation (2) where the index $j$ appears on the right-side but not on the left-side. 3) The R code is impossible to read, the components and arguments are not described. 4) Capital letters are used in a non standardized way, for example beta-binomial or Beta-Binomial the same for binomial or Binomial. 5) The article is quite confused with a lot of small subsections and equations repeated, for example equation (2) appears on page 2 and 5. 6) The discussion section is confused, is quite hard following the author. The figure's caption does not make sense. For example, in Figure A the parameter $eta_{prey}$ has the value $-0.1$, but its values appears always bigger than $1$. I suggest a comprehensive revision in terms of notation, format and readability of the article with the objective to become the article easier to read.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The simulation study design is limited, since the author used only one sample size (20) and numbers of individuals (200). In general random effect models are hard to fit by maximum likelihood and the sample size and numbers of individuals are always important features to consider in simulation studies. Furthermore, is well-known in the literature that binomial random effects models are even more difficult to fit and the number of trials is a critical point for the estimation algorithm. In the authors notation the number of binomial trials is denoted by $c$ but I could not find where this number was specified by the author. I suggest a clearer description the number of trials used in the simulation study. Furthermore, I suggest that a more comprehensive simulation study considering the effect of sample size, number of individuals and binomial trials be considered.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The author does not describe the prior specification used in the Bayesian beta-binomial model. The author does not provide any sensibility analysis to the prior distribution used in the Bayesian beta-binomial model. The author assumes that the maximum likelihood estimator is able to recover the model parameters in a suitable way. But for binomial random effects models it may be not true, since the marginal likelihood is an intractable integral that should be solved numerically and the method used to do it may be an important effect on the final estimates. This effect was ignored by the author on his discussion. I suggest to include a clear description of the prior distributions used in the Bayesian models and a sensibility analysis to verify the impact these distributions on the final estimates.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The estimation of binomial mixed models is not a easy task, when dealing with simulation studies the fitting algorithm used to estimate the model parameters is very important in the final result. I think you should at least have a look in this paper http://xxx.tau.ac.il/abs/1503.07307 for a discussion these problems and take care about your conclusions. This paper deals with Bayesian inference, but it is quite similar for likelihood methods. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "A comparison of observation-level random effect and Beta-Binomial models for modelling overdispersion in Binomial data in ecology & evolution (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1114v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 21, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I think the paper is reasonably easy to understand and has fairly clear objectives and findings. Some more critical detailed comments are included in the sections below. The topic is essentially statistical, and the author is probably not a statistician. Hence there is a lot of statistical literature that is ignored. For example, the comparison between the two types of model discussed here is discussed in the paper Williams, D.A. (1982) Extra-binomial variation in logistic linear models. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Series C (Applied Statistics), 31, 144-148, which currently has 745 citations in Google Scholar.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The structure of the paper seemed a little odd to me, in that overdispersed data are generated in two ways (by adding random effects on the logistic scale or via a beta-binomial distribution) and analyses are presented that parallel these (using OLRE or via a beta-binomial model). What I thought was odd was that the main focus was on OLRE, with beta-binomial analysis added more as an afterthought (see e.g. last sentence of abstract). Why not treat them more symmetrically? The basic approach of simulating data so that estimates can be compared with known parameter values is a common one. The simulations here are not particularly extensive, since they relate to the rather specific model (2), where there are two regression coefficients with opposite signs, one being a weak effect, the other stronger. Also, one might argue that the presence of a random intercept term in the model rather clouds the issue of overdispersion and it might have been nice to see at least some simulations from a model with a constant intercept term. The mathematical description of the model could be improved. For example: The symbol i is introduced on line 52, but it is not properly explained that this represents an individual until line 65. The binomial distribution is written ‘Binomial(pi,ci)’ whereas the standard notation is to put the index (ci) before the probability. The brackets in the denominator of the RHS of eqn (3) are redundant [and the RHS could be written more simply as 1/(1+exp(-mean.pi)]. In eqn (4) the normal distribution is defined in terms of its mean and standard deviation, but the standard notation for a normal distribution uses mean and variance. In lines 71/72 the R code doesn’t fit on the line and can’t be read properly. Similarly later, lines 100-102, line 173 and line 176. Line 81/82 ‘indicating a significant degree of overdispersion’. This would depend on the degrees of freedom. Do you just mean a ‘considerable degree’? Maybe better still would just be to replace this by ‘If the data exhibit overdispersion, we can adjust our model to take this into account, …’ The notation has gone wrong in eqns (7)-(10). What appears as pi in (8) and (9) should I suspect be mean.pi and probi should just be pi. In the description of the data generation (lines 152-159) the value of h should be specified. On line 169, I would suggest replacing ‘Each dataset was generated 1000 times …’ by ‘One thousand data sets were simulated …’ In the beta-binomial analysis (line 182 onwards) it is not explained why only two combinations of parameter values are considered here. I assume this is because of computation time? Line 185, ‘few frequentist mixed model packages in R permit the fitting of beta-binomial models.’ Are there any? If so, could they be used.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The RESULTS section is succinct, but hard to follow because of multiple errors in table and figure captions. For example in Table 1 caption, the slope quoted for bodysize should be for prey. (And it would be helpful to give the true value for µe in the table caption). The subscripts are missing in the row column labels of the table. The confusion of prey and bodysize coefficients continues in the Figure captions. Also µ_pop seems to be mixed up with s_pop. Line 224, ‘the weak but significant effect of body size’. Again this looks like a non-statistical usage of the word ‘significant’, which is best avoided. The findings are not overall very surprising – that different methods of analysis may be more or less successful depending on the model that generated the data. What is somewhat surprising is the relatively good performance of the beta-binomial model across different generative models. I think the author is right to emphasise in the Discussion that this is probably not due to the fact that this analysis is Bayesian but the others are frequentist (though this is a confounding factor). But this leaves the question of why the beta-binomial model appears to have broader applicability than the OLRE model. Some insight into this would strengthen the paper.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "A comparison of observation-level random effect and Beta-Binomial models for modelling overdispersion in Binomial data in ecology & evolution (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1114v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 26, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
