Review History for Spectrum of tablet computer use by medical students and residents at an academic medical center [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Spectrum of tablet computer use by medical students and residents at an academic medical center To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 22nd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 20th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on June 30th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 6th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
George Perry
·
Jul 6, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the reviewer isssues
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 30, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
George Perry
·
Jun 20, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers have outlined several issues that should be addressed prior to publication
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article was clearly written and was an appropriate length and the material presented was relevant to the claims being made by the authors.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The design was simple and straightforward but appropriate to the study. An expanded explanation of how the statistics were calculated may be useful.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The significance of the data is propelling. Possible expansion of the discussion and conclusions may be helpful to understand why this study is so important and deserves publication
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Article was easy to understand and straightforward. Would be helpful to expand why this information is important. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Spectrum of tablet computer use by medical students and residents at an academic medical center (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1133v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 17, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
1. Line 24. Should not start a sentence with an abbreviation (…EMR…). 2. What is CPOE in Figure 1?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1. Line 71. What is meant by daily? More than once a day, twice, ten times a day? 2. Is it just one hospital that is part of this study? If so, does the hospital (or if more than one site, hospitals) supply the tablets for the residents? If so, this would be the likely reason for use. If they had to purchase their own there might be problems with access to data bases such as Epic and may have HIPPA issues as well. It is indicated in Line 63 that SIU-SOM does not supply, but the hospital may. If so, this may skew the data towards resident use.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
1. Some comment should be made about the “Never” use in Table 2. 2. Some comment should be made concerning mobile cell phones as an alternative to the tablet. 3. Medical student use may be more limited to using tablets due to time constraints of school hours compared to resident use as part of their routine encounters with patients. What about after hour use versus use during the working/class day?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This manuscript reports on the use of tablet computer by medical students versus medical residents at Southern Illinois School of Medicine. The authors conclude that tablet use is a common practice in medical education and that medical residents are more likely to use their tablets computers on a daily basis compared to medical students. This is most likely due to clinical activities of medical residents requiring the need of a portable computer. This study builds upon prior work done by the author and others, but the major finding is the comparison of medical students versus residents use. This manuscript adds to the literature on computer use and in particular, mobile devices, for use in medical education and patient care. There are some minor concerns with this study that need to be addressed. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Spectrum of tablet computer use by medical students and residents at an academic medical center (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1133v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 22, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
