Review History for Lacosamide adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures: a meta-analysis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Lacosamide adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures: a meta-analysis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 30th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 17th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on July 3rd, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 4th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Benjamin Whalley
·
Jul 4, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
My thanks for undertaking the reviewers' suggested changes. With regard to the rebuttals made regarding methodology, I concur with you.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 3, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Benjamin Whalley
·
Jun 17, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The suggested revisions are very limited and largely confined to modification of the discussion text which I expect will present little difficulty. I look forward to receiving the revised MS in due course.
label_author_1
Emilio Russo ·
Jun 17, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Sections and references do not follow the correct style.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
There are no specific comments on experimental design. Methods are adequate for the objective.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The validity of the findings is limited as clearly indicated in the MS. However, they have a good relevance despite other studies will be needed to draw proper conclusions on drug efficacy, safety and from an economical point of view.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Comments for 2013:05:531:0:1:REVIEW Lacosamide adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures: a meta-analysis Overall, I found the MS very interesting, only few minor points need to be addressed. 1.RCT in the abstract should not be abbreviated. 2.The declared objective of the study was to compare lacosamide efficacy and safety to other AEDs. However, authors results do not allow comparison if not only to placebo. Please modify the objective both in the abstract and introduction 3.Authors mention the fact that in two studies, patients between 16 and 18 years of age were included. It is not possible to identify them and therefore they were considered for the present analysis. Would this have any impact on authors’ results? This point should be addressed in the discussion limitations heading. Cite this review as
Russo E ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Lacosamide adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures: a meta-analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.114v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jan Novy ·
Jun 7, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Sawh and colleagues present a meta-analysis of the randomised controlled trial of lacosamide. They conclude that lacosamide significantly increases the probably of improvement (>50% reduction) in comparison at the expense of a significantly greater risk of side effects. I have only a couple of minor points to raise.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The methodology is adequate, but given the small number of studies included, this section could be shortened possibly using supplementary material.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors do not present the results in term of seizure freedom; they would also provide an important insight in the relevance of lacosamide in clinical practice. In the discussion, the authors correctly acknowledged that regulatory trials are limited by their short duration. They should also discuss that regulatory trials results are also difficult to extrapolate to clinical practice as they tend to enrol people with a high seizure frequency to demonstrate efficacy quickly, and tend to exclude young people without significant co-morbidities (such intellectual disabilities or psychiatric conditions, not uncommon in epilepsy). Those studies assess therefore a specific population and are unlikely to represent the whole population of people with epilepsy candidate to this treatment.
Cite this review as
Novy J ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Lacosamide adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures: a meta-analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.114v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 30, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
