Review History for Field-measured drag area is a key correlate of level cycling time trial performance [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Field-measured drag area is a key correlate of level cycling time trial performance To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 11th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 4th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on July 10th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 10th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Wenbing Zhao
·
Jul 10, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have responded to all comments made by the reviewers. No additional revision is necessary.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 10, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Wenbing Zhao
·
Jun 4, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address the issues raised by the two reviewers. In particular, please consider making the method section more concise. A good way of doing so could be to move some of the details to an appendix.
label_author_1
Debbie Espy ·
Jun 2, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The reference number for the IRB approval is not mentioned. If there is external funding, the source of funding is not mentioned. The manuscript otherwise meets the stated criteria for publication for "basic reporting." It is unclear if or how the raw data for this study would be made available as stated in the criteria. The figures are clear and relevant. The text is also clear and unambiguous and no edits to the grammar or writing are noted.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The submission fits into the scope of the Journal as a Medical or Health Science - specifically sports medicine/human performance. The article also meets the criteria for this section of the review, "Experimental Design." The Research question is clearly defined and supported, and the study conducted with attention to technical accuracy and precision. The one suggestion for this category is that much of the methods section may be better in an appendix or supplement. The details of the instrumentation could be more concise and, where the calibrations and operations of the instruments do not differ from their recommended use, that information could be moved to an appendix or supplemental table.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results do appear to be robust, statistically sound and well controlled. Again - it is unclear how or if the raw data would be made available. The conclusions flow logically from the introduction/research question and the results and are clearly explained.
Cite this review as
Espy D ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Field-measured drag area is a key correlate of level cycling time trial performance (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1144v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 4, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is well written, with a sufficient introduction and background to explain the importance of this work. Perhaps some of the detail in the methods section could be moved to an appendix. This section is quite lengthy. For example, there could be an appendix on calibration of all of the testing equipment. Below are some specific comments. In Table 2: Did not find the symbol † used anywhere in chart; formatting with subscripts is off in text below table (lines 3-6).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Overall this is clear. Some specifics comments: Beginning Line 195: It is unclear how Cd is derived in this section. Line 227: is there a reference for this procedure or is this the first time it has been used as a means to determine AP? You have referenced the other indirect methods. In several places you state that there was no difference found between observers (line 127-128 and 224-225. Elaborate please.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Again, overall this is clear. One specific comment: Line 227: is there a reference for this procedure or is this the first time it has been used as a means to determine AP? You have referenced the other indirect methods. It appears you are the first to use this direct method.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Field-measured drag area is a key correlate of level cycling time trial performance (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1144v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 11, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
