Review History for Development of a greenhouse-based inoculation protocol for the fungus Colletotrichum cereale pathogenic to annual bluegrass (Poa annua) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Development of a greenhouse-based inoculation protocol for the fungus Colletotrichum cereale pathogenic to annual bluegrass ( Poa annua ) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 14th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 26th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on July 7th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 14th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jenny Renaut
·
Jul 14, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised version has been made taking into account the comments of all the reviewers. Therefore, the manuscript can be accepted in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 7, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jenny Renaut
·
May 26, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript 'Development of a greenhouse-based inoculation protocol for the fungus Colletotrichum cereale pathogenic to annual bluegrass (Poa annua)' has been reviewed by 3 colleagues and the decision is for Minor Revisions.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 24, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper follows PeerJ policies, it is clearly written, cite relevant literature mainly from the same group but omit to highlight what are the crucial differences of previous infection methods used with C. species compared to this one. qPCR figure is not needed or should be modified to increase the image quality and with better legend for its reading. The paper seems to be part of a current research looking at races. The method description, given its limited novelty, would better fit in a research paper describing pathogenic diversity within the species.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The paper respects Koch’s postulate but some further data on the reproducibility of symptoms should be provided given the claim of the title. To show that infection is reproducible would require observation and scoring of a set of biological replicates done in different time with some kind of statistical analysis associated (like repeat the experiment in different time of the year and check on symptoms reproducibility showing quantitative scales for disease assessment). According to Peer J policy “all quantitative real time PCR should follow the MIQE guidelines (the Minimum Information for Publication of Quantitative Real-Time PCR Experiments) and checklist”. Please provide evidence that this was the case in this protocol description.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The paper is not a complete research work as it describes a method for inoculation showing that 2 isolates behave differently in the relationship with bluegrass biotypes (not really enough to do a complete study on the existence of races in the species). At the same time it is not a new method paper apart from the species used (a very banal transfer of an established technique to a new pathosystem, see for example Avila-Adame et al 2003 PLANT DISEASE) It lacks statistical evaluation of symptoms reproducibility.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The paper by Beirn et al describe the protocol of infection of C.cereale on annual bluegrass. The paper is mainly methodological description of the inoculation protocol. Authors claim that for the first time they achieved a greenhouse reproducible infection of C. cereale on annual bluegrass. To prove it, they used 3 plant biotypes and 2 C. cereale isolates showing that 2 of the 3 biotypes were successfully infected in greenhouse testing Originality of the research is only partially accomplished as the suggested hypothesis of the presence of races within the pathogen is not further investigated. Therefore the paper should be only judged on the verification that a protocol similarly established for other Colletothrichum species is also applicable to the bluegrass-C.cereale pathosystem. If only the method should be evaluated the paper fails to be a fully complete methodological paper as no statistics is carried out on symptoms and their reproducibility with many biological replicates carrried out in different times. I would invite authors to generate a complete piece of research by adding information and research on the possible presence of races. Otherwise the originality of the paper is quite limited. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Development of a greenhouse-based inoculation protocol for the fungus Colletotrichum cereale pathogenic to annual bluegrass (Poa annua) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1153v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 5, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comment, the article meets standards required by the journal.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experimental design is appropriate. A better description of how the plants were treated is required. A humidifier was used but the authors use the terminology "mist".
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Findings are within the scope expected with the exception that one cultivar did not develop disease. The authors did address this in the discussion but their technique will not work for every plant/isolate combination.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Comments have been made on the .pdf. The use of "misting" or "misting chamber" is misleading if plants were not treated with mist which is different than placing plants in a water vapor saturated environment. I do not like the use of "lifestyle" when trying to describe ecology. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Development of a greenhouse-based inoculation protocol for the fungus Colletotrichum cereale pathogenic to annual bluegrass (Poa annua) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1153v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Pedro Talhinhas ·
May 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Relevant, well written and well structured
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Clearly deffined experimental design, according to objective
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Results clearly represent an advance on the field, although they also raise new questions, clearly marked as speculative, on the possibility of existance of races in this pathosystem
Comments for the author
L102 space missing after H2O L105 replace ‘2 m’ by ‘2 min’ L106 replace ‘30 m’ by ‘30 min’ L122-123 please revise concentration (10^6 conidia/mL?) L145 replace ‘2 m’ by ‘2 min’ (twice) L145 10% NaClO? Do you mean 10% commercial bleach? Typically commercial bleach is 5% NaClO, so 10% NaClO would mean ‘double strength bleach’. Two minutes in ‘double strength bleach’ would probably destroy the tissues. L180 No information is given about plants seeded in sand besides that on appressoria (L165) L313 Shouldn’t there be an ‘et al.’ here? Cite this review as
Talhinhas P ( 2015 ) Peer Review #3 of "Development of a greenhouse-based inoculation protocol for the fungus Colletotrichum cereale pathogenic to annual bluegrass (Poa annua) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1153v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 14, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
