Review History for Wireless laptop-based phonocardiograph and diagnosis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Wireless laptop-based phonocardiograph and diagnosis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 20th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 3rd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on July 9th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 21st, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Scott Grundy
·
Jul 21, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am happy to accept this paper as it stands.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 9, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Scott Grundy
·
Jun 3, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Your paper was considered to be a potentially important "proof of concent" paper. Therefore, you should consider resubmitting your paper after appropriate attention to the reviewers comments.
label_author_1
Francesco Faita ·
May 20, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper describe a proof-of-concept for a phonocardiographic device and it could be considered a suitable unit of publication. The paper requires a mother-tongue proof reading. The background and introduction sections are well covered as well as appropriated bibliographic references are reported. The structure of the article is not completely conform to the structure as suggested in “Instructions for authors”; however, the sections of the paper seem to be adequate to present a proof-of-concept work, as is the case of the proposed paper. All figures are clear and well labelled.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The topic of the paper covers the Aims & Scope of PeerJ. However, the originality of the research is rather questionable, mainly for three reasons. Firstly, devices very similar to the device described in the paper are already available on the market, both for professional and consumer targets. Secondly, the hardware was simply obtained from the assembling of different commercial products. Thirdly, software algorithms were already used by other authors in similar or complementary scientific fields. However, I recognize that the research question is quite intriguing, i.e. the availability of PCG information in general environment and not only in ambulatories/hospitals. Moreover, all methods were clearly described by the author and the investigation seems to be conducted with accurate technical standards.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
All presented data are acquired from only few (one/two?) subjects. Presumably, only healthy subjects were enrolled in the study. No statistical analysis was conducted on acquired data. This is in line with the characteristic of proof-of-concept of the paper. For this reason, some conclusions about the high performances and the high quality diagnostic capabilities the system could offer are quite speculative. In particular, the potentials of the signal processing algorithm, when it is used in highly noisy environment, are only extrapolated from already published benchmarks.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The paper address a very important topic, as the use of PCG signal processing in general environment and not only in ambulatories/hospitals. The characteristic of the electronic device and the implementation of the software algorithms are correctly and widely described. However, only few data are presented, thus keeping the work at the level of proof-of-concept. For this reason, some conclusions about the diagnostic capabilities of the system and its robustness against noise are speculative and not fully supported by data. We strongly suggest to acquire data from an adequate numbers of both healthy and pathological subjects in order to construct a robust statistical analysis. Cite this review as
Faita F ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Wireless laptop-based phonocardiograph and diagnosis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1178v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Fabio Hedayioglu ·
May 27, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Figure 6 does not have legends and is not very clear and confusing. Maybe adding a legend would help. Spliting the Figure into two (one with T12 vs T11 and another with T2 vs T1) would increase clarity, since the author is conveying two different informations.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
In Section 3, the paragraph from lines134 to 140 there are missing symbols (line 134), and the explanation is quite convoluted. Maybe expanding would help. Another way of making things more clear would be using figures. Line: 114: I think the word 'windows' is missing. In Line 144: why there are two recording durations? It is not clear why the author choose to have 50 seconds or 200 seconds. It is also not clear what data is used in the analysis futher in the article. In Line 145/146: it is stated that the recording of PCG is only for demonstration and not intended as a study of human subjects. However, the article uses Signal processing and algorithms for heart sound analysis in humans (the whole article use humans!). Even the first phrase in the abstract implies human diagnosis. This phrase does not seems to fit the rest of the article. Maybe the author means that this prototype is not ready clinical use in humans? in Line 150/151: I am not sure if the user is the best person to jugde the quality of the sound: different auscultation places will allow you to diagnose different diseases (and hear different aspects of the heart's Haemodynamic system). The user may not be the best person to judge the quality of the sound. It would be interesting to validate this with a cardiologist. In Line 168/169: I don't understand what the author means with the last phrase: "Users can use the display to classify the cardiac function..." Is the author implying that the user can carry on diagnosis based on automated analysis? Not sure if the intention here is to use the display as a measure of signal quality (what is the user seeing here? the waveform? Its envelop? the values of T1,T2,T11,T12?) or if the author is saying that the user can classify his/her own heart sound using author's invention. The latter is usally very dangerous, since it borderlines autodiagnosis and should preferably be avoided. In Line 170: This section actually talks about features that can be used (by a cardiologist) to infer diagnosis. These features are actually physiological features, and usefull for diagnosis. The article's abstract beautifully mentions that the PCG signal processing algorithms “are developed to assist the physician...”, this section is doing exactly that: using signal processing in the PCT to give physiological measures, so the physician can perform his/her diagnosis or refer the patient to a specialist. This item is merely a suggestion for improvement and is optional. In Line 181/182: Cardiac cycles anomalies can have different influences in systole and diastole: the text seems to suggest that there is only one type of variation. In Line 182/183: It would add to the text to use the medical name of this “deficiency in cardiac filling”. In Line 194: Figure 5 seems to be better to show the widths of T1 and T2. In Line 204: Is the formula in line 201 existent in the literature or was it created by the author? If it exists in the literature, it should be referenced. If not, some explanation would be good.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Lines 211/212: Throughout the paper, there is no mention about the budget used to build the wireless PCG recorder. It is also not mention what the author means by 'performance': execution time? Specificity? Sensitivity? There is no mention of any of these quantities in the paper. This should be added to the paper or these claims (low-budget and high performance) must be removed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a paper about the development of a wirelless Phonocardiograph with physiological signal extraction algorithms, where in addition to the development of the hardware, the author also used an advanced signal processing algorithms to extract some physiologically meaningfull features usefull to the screening of heart diseases. The article is novel in the hardware setup, since it creatively uses off the shelf components to create such system. On the Signal processing side, it seems to use an already published heart sound segmentation algorithm and does some analysis of the data, presumably in normal individuals. However, there is no information about the number of individuals used, nor the length of the auscultations. It is also not stated if a cardiologist has validated these heart sounds as normal or not. It is a good frist phase project. The engineering part of the paper is sound and the analysis of the algorithms seems correct. The results are interesting. There is a need of some medical knowledge when interpreting some of the data. Maybe it would be interesting to ask a cardiologist to read the paper and review the methodology/results. Cite this review as
Hedayioglu F ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Wireless laptop-based phonocardiograph and diagnosis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1178v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 20, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
