Review History for Orthostatic stability with intravenous levodopa [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Orthostatic stability with intravenous levodopa To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 12th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 7th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on July 26th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 29th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mark Hallett
·
Jul 29, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revision is adequate and addresses all the concerns of the three reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 26, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mark Hallett
·
Jun 7, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
This paper has some worthwhile data to report. Revision is necessary to improve the detail of the method and results, and consider some alternative views in the Discussion.
label_author_1
Elizabeth Coon ·
May 20, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
There are areas where the article fails to meet standards: -The subjects are not described. Demographics including age, gender, history of hypertension, other use of dopaminergic or cardiovascular medications should be included. -Methods should include when orthostatic blood pressures were taken (immediately, 1 minute, 2 minutes after standing?). Were both placebo and levodopa infusions done at the same time of the day? Were patients fasting? -Table 1 should include the N for each measurement rather than the total. The data was analyzed as paired thus it is misleading to report the total for each measurement and should be reported as pairs or if unequal then the numbers for each given. -p values in the table would be better reported than giving the range of p values. -Patient's symptoms were not included. To make this clinically meaningful, presence of orthostatic symptoms would be useful.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This is a convenience sample. -How were blood pressures recorded? Manually or electronically? Was it the same examiner? -What was the volume of the infusion? Increasing volume through a bolus and 90 minute infusion may account for what appears to be an increase in supine diastolic BP after infusion and may negate influences of levodopa. This needs to be addressed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
-First sentence in discussion is overstated. One cannot say that there is no meaningful effect on cardiovascular system when only orthostatic blood pressure and pulse are reported. -Conclusions should acknowledge the patient population studied. -Authors should acknowledge that larger studies may find a difference as the diastolic blood pressure change
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall it is good to report these results. There are some issues that could be addressed to improve the manuscript. Cite this review as
Coon E ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Orthostatic stability with intravenous levodopa (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1198v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 26, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Adequate.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Double-blind, crossover comparison of levodopa infusions and placebo infusions. Appropriate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Finds are clear cut. It is the interpretation of the results that can be questioned.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This manuscript describes a crossover study of pulse and blood pressure supine and standing after 200 mg of oral carbidopa and a placebo or levodopa infusion with a loading dose and maintenance infusion for 100 minutes in subjects with motor tics and in normal controls. There were no significant differences between pulse and blood pressure recordings for the placebo and levodopa infusions although the levodopa infusion produced plasma concentrations of levodopa that would be therapeutic in PD. There is no quibbling with the results of the study. The conclusions of the authors are, however, questionable. The authors’ conclusion is that “i.v. levodopa, at a dose that produces biologically meaningful effects on parkinsonism, does not meaningfully affect the cardiovascular system when it is given after adequate inhibition of DOPA decarboxylase.” This is based on the assumption that all vascular effects of levodopa are peripheral and will be blocked with a large dose of carbidopa. There is evidence that levodopa may have central effects on blood pressure in PD (Irwin, R.P. 1992) and certainly hypotension is a recognized side effect of oral and levodopa infusions in PD subjects. Citing an abstract (Abraham) and a publication in preparation (Siddiqi) is a questionable practice. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Orthostatic stability with intravenous levodopa (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1198v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Jun 7, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Dear Editors The authors report on the impact of an intravenous levodopa challenge on cardiovascular parameters in a group of cardiovascular healthy individuals (patients suffering from Tourette syndrome and healthy controls). Their primary hypothesis is that i.v. levodopa would not affect blood pressure and heart rate significantly, when the peripheral action of the compound is blocked sufficiently with an aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) such as carbidopa. According to the reported data (result section and figure 1), there was no significant (group wise) difference in systolic and diastolic blood pressure as well as heart rate between the three measurements: baseline, placebo, and i.v. levodopa. Baseline measurements (one week apart) before placebo and levodopa treatment did also not differ significantly.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
see point 3 below
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Major concerns: 1.The manuscript lacks a description of the participants. Please provide data on gender, age, BMI and clinical history (if any) concerning diseases potentially affecting the cardiovascular system (diabetes etc.). 2.With respect to the patients suffering Tourette syndrome; were the patients on or of concomitant drugs? 3.I do recognize that the reported trial was not primarily designed to reveal cardiovascular effects of i.v. levodopa. But before concluding that levodopa does not produce meaningful cardiovascular effects (discussion; first sentence), I wonder if the study is sufficiently powered to detect minor differences (power calculation missing)? 4.The authors need to describe the methods used to assess blood pressure in more detail; length of baseline (a three minute supine period would be too short), assessment of blood pressure performed automated or manually by sphygmomanometry or “intra-arterial line”; how many BP recordings were obtained to defined “baseline” 5.Levodopa, especially when given to drug naïve individuals and when administered with an AADC to increase its central effect, usually induces side effects such as nausea. Did the study participants suffer comparable side effects, that in turn might have confounded the cardiovascular parameters? 6.Orthostatic hypotension is a common side effect of oral levodopa+aadc (discussion, line 118). There are several studies reporting on a vasodepressor effect of oral levodopa (1-6). In an own study (7), oral administration of 200 mg levodopa + 50 mg of an aadc (benserazide) induced a significant reduction in mean arterial blood pressure (-15%, p < 0.001) and cardiac stroke volume (-13%, p < 0.01). One could argue that autonomic involvement in Parkinson’s disease unveils minor cardiovascular effects of (oral) levodopa+aadc. Otherwise the authors would need to discuss the different actions of levodopa depending of the route of administration (oral versus i.v.). Minor concerns 7.please correct the ordinate label in figure 1a: bpm instead of mmHg [1] Whitsett TL, Goldberg LI. Effects of levodopa on systolic preejection period, blood pressure, and heart rate during acute and chronic treatment of Parkinson's disease. Circulation 1972;1:97-106. [2] Calne DB, Brennan J, Spiers AS, Stern GM. Hypotension caused by L-dopa. Br Med J 1970;5694:474-5. [3] Senard JM, Verwaerde P, Rascol O, Montastruc JL. Effects of acute levodopa administration on blood pressure and heart variability in never treated parkinsonians. Hypertens Res 1995;S175-S177. [4] Haapaniemi TH, Kallio MA, Korpelainen JT, Suominen K, Tolonen U, Sotaniemi KA, et al. Levodopa, bromocriptine and selegiline modify cardiovascular responses in Parkinson's disease. J Neurol 2000;11:868-74. [5] Bouhaddi M, Vuillier F, Fortrat JO, Cappelle S, Henriet MT, Rumbach L, et al. Impaired cardiovascular autonomic control in newly and long-term-treated patients with Parkinson's disease: involvement of L-dopa therapy. Auton Neurosci 2004;1-2:30-8. [6] Wolf JP, Bouhaddi M, Louisy F, Mikehiev A, Mourot L, Cappelle S, et al. Side-effects of L-dopa on venous tone in Parkinson's disease: a leg-weighing assessment. Clin Sci (Lond) 2006;3:369-77. [7]Noack et al. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2014;20(8):815-8
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #3 of "Orthostatic stability with intravenous levodopa (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1198v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 12, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
