Review History for Playing with heart and soul…and genomes: sports implications and applications of personal genomics [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Playing with heart and soul…and genomes: sports implications and applications of personal genomics To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 19th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 8th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on July 9th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 10th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Paul Appelbaum
·
Jul 10, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Appreciate your responsiveness to the reviewers' comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 9, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Paul Appelbaum
·
Jul 8, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As you can see below, the reviewers are very positive about your paper, but have a number of minor suggestions for improvement. Comments 1 and 3 from Reviewer 1 are very much worth paying attention to, as is the suggestion for a careful proof-reading to get rid of typos, grammatical issues and the like. If you can successfully address the reviewer's comments, this should be ready to be accepted.
label_author_1
Thomas Murray ·
Jul 3, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is an impressively comprehensive report on the use of genome and exome sequencing as it relates to athletes. Its focus is on health risks that might be uncovered by such tests rather than their use or validity for predicting athletic talent. The article draws out anthropological, ethical and legal implications for such testing.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
As a literature review and analysis this article easily meets the standards for comprehensiveness and transparency that are fundamental to such undertakings.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I anticipate that this article will become a must-read for anyone interested in personal genomics and sport. The analysis is for the most part carefully drawn and persuasive. I would ask AU to consider the following: 1. The very interesting aggregate data on p. 3 about risks does not answer a questions this reviewer found most compelling: What is the risk to an individual with each of these genes of dying with versus without participating in athletics? Is it possible to answer this question? 2. On p. 12 AU chooses derisive language to describe the situation of NCAA athletes: "...arbitrary and oppressive rules of amateurism"; "...modern servitude of student athletes." This line of criticism is by now well established but far from universally accepted. It is worth noting that the great majority of student athletes, and the overwhelming majority of woman college athletes, are in non-revenue generating sports. The validity of AU's argument does not depend on such contentious editorializing, which is more of a distraction than a central point. 3. Despite the great detail in the article, I had some difficulty understanding how AU would deal with cases such as those in the Bethesda #36 Guidleines, which state: "This recommendation is independent of age, gender, and phenotypic appearance, and does not differ for those athletes with or without symptoms." In general the article would benefit from clear articulation of standards for the use of personal genomic information by athletes, parents (of minors), and other parties interested in such information (coaches, university risk managers, etc.) The article has much to say about these cases, but it would be very helpful to have a clear, brief summary.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
An admirable piece of work. The paper would benefit from one more careful proofreading to pick up the errors that dot the paper and distract from the important points it makes. Cite this review as
Murray T ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Playing with heart and soul…and genomes: sports implications and applications of personal genomics (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.120v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
dave baron ·
Jul 2, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is very well written editorial which addresses an important issue in sports medicine/psychiatry. My only critique/suggestion would be to offer a bit more explanation of genomic sports. It is discussed, but many readers may not be familiar with the concept. I happen to agree with her analysis of this potential issue.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
N/A, Op ed piece
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
N/A, Op ed piece
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a nicely written opinion paper. I fully agree with the points you made, but would offer just a bit more background information for the reader. Cite this review as
baron d ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Playing with heart and soul…and genomes: sports implications and applications of personal genomics (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.120v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 19, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
