Review History for Inconsistent year-to-year fluctuations limit the conclusiveness of global higher education rankings for university management [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Inconsistent year-to-year fluctuations limit the conclusiveness of global higher education rankings for university management To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 29th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 5th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on July 13th, 2015 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 6th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Melania Pintilie
·
Aug 6, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The comments were appropriately addressed.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 22, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The revised manuscript is much improved and address all my issues and suggestions for additional analyses.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Appropriate
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Appropriate
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The revised manuscript is much improved and address all my issues and suggestions for additional analyses. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Inconsistent year-to-year fluctuations limit the conclusiveness of global higher education rankings for university management (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1217v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 13, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Melania Pintilie
·
May 5, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please, if possible, try to answer all the concerns raised by the reviewers. In addition, please modify the title to conform to the concern of reviewer 2 about the use of the statistical terminology (noise). Is it also possible to describe how the scores are calculated?
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 28, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is well written.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This paper describes regression analyses on THES and ARWU ranking from 2010 to 2014.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors conclude that the observed fluctuations in the THES do not correspond to actual university performance and ranking results are thus of limited conclusiveness for the university management of lower scoring universities. And they suggest that THE and ARWU alter their ranking procedure insofar as universities below position 50 should be ranked summarized only in groups of 25 or 50. I have some concerns on the methodology and analysis.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper describes regression analyses on THES and ARWU ranking from 2010 to 2014. The authors conclude that the observed fluctuations in the THES do not correspond to actual university performance and ranking results are thus of limited conclusiveness for the university management of lower scoring universities. And they suggest that THE and ARWU alter their ranking procedure insofar as universities below position 50 should be ranked summarized only in groups of 25 or 50. The manuscript is well written. I have some concerns on the methodology and analysis. 1. The current analysis was limited to the universities that ranked from 1 to 200. It would be helpful to perform additional analysis on the low ranked universes that below 200 and assess the rank and score variation. 2. Besides the graphic illustration, the authors need to report the summary statistics such as regression coefficients and corresponding 95% confidence intervals for any pair-wised comparisons. 3. It would be interesting to show some results on the rank and score fluctuation along time from 2010 to 2014. 4. To better understand the THES and ARWU rank system, it would be helpful to provide a summary table with the detailed comparison scores between THES and ARWU. 5. The legend of Figure 3 is confusing. Should exclude “a) 2010; b) 2011; c) 1012; d) 2013; e) 2014.” Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Inconsistent year-to-year fluctuations limit the conclusiveness of global higher education rankings for university management (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1217v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
May 4, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript follows largely the journal format, and includes adequate background introduction and rationale for the objectives. The figures presented are relevant to the content; however, they can be better labeled (i) The captions appear to be rather non-specific and inconsistent. For example, line 293 “Figure …. from the taking 2010-11 on.” could have been given specific years, as in lines 310-311. (ii) Also, for Figure 3, line 305, “(a-e) Ranks..” seems to be incorrect. The authors are advised to revise the captions, esp. for figures 1-4, for accuracy and consistency. (iii) For Figure 5, the y-axis could be labeled as “ARWU raking 2014” corresponding to the x-axis “THES Ranking 2014”. It would be helpful to provide the number of universities used for the plots in the caption. One minor comment: The abbreviation “THES” should be used throughout; “THE” should be changed in lines 76 and 86.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The data are graphically summarized in figures, which form the basis of the authors’ conclusions. It would have been helpful to provide quantitative evaluations of the observed differences.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The authors’ usage of the statistical terms, such as noise and random, differs from the conventional definitions. Specifically, (quoting from en.wikipedia.org) “statistical noise is the colloquialism for recognized amounts of unexplained variation in a sample”, and the observed fluctuations discussed in the manuscript could be due to the dynamic changes (explained) for the areas included (weighted) for deriving the overall scores. Fluctuations could be examined through regression analyses, while accounting for explained variations, e.g. publication increases/decreases related to faculty recruits/retirements, and increased teaching due to student enrollment expansion. The authors are advised to revise the terminology. The authors describe the figures as regressing the x-axis (e.g. Figure 1, 2011-2012, year t-1) on the y-axis (e.g. 2011-2012, year t)—the common practice is to regress y on x (i.e. switch the two axes). It’s worth mentioning that the two regressions are not the same, though correlation between x and y remains the same.
Comments for the author
The results presented in the manuscript are expected, given the inherent difference between the two indices, which aim to capture multiple dimensions of “performance” . The authors’ recommendation of using ordinal groups for ranks below 50 or 100 seems sensible. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Inconsistent year-to-year fluctuations limit the conclusiveness of global higher education rankings for university management (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1217v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 29, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
