Review History for An experimental study of rill sediment delivery in purple soil, using the volume-replacement method [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History An experimental study of rill sediment delivery in purple soil, using the volume-replacement method To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 25th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 22nd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on August 5th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 7th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Chiyuan Miao
·
Aug 7, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors had made great progresses according to the reviewers' comments. Hence, I am pleased to tell you that your work has now been accepted for publication in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 5, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Chiyuan Miao
·
Jul 22, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I have now received 3 reviews of your manuscript, which are attached for your reference. The reviewers find the paper important and suitable for PeerJ. However, they raise a number of points that need to be addressed before I can consider the paper for publication. Reviewer #1 suggested referencing some preexisting research in the Section of method and discussion. It is reasonable for you to read the references carefully, and find whether the references are related with your research greatly. Both of the Reviewer #2 and #3 suggested extending the Section Introduction and discussion. If you wish to revise your manuscript, please take the referee comments fully into account and provide point-by-point responses with a full list of changes.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 9, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The submission is fully comply with the all PeerJ polices.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In this paper, authors measure the amount of soil erosion along the rill length and calculated the sediment concentration along the length of the rill by using simulated rainfall method, which looks interesting. However, I think this manuscript still needs some revision before publication. Some comments as follows: 1.Author should describe how do you measure rainfall intensity by simulated rainfall intensity. There are similar references should be considered, such as Luo et al, 2013, 1-2: 40-47; Sustainability of Water Quality and Ecology; Gao Y, et al. Environmental Monitoring and Assessment, 2010, 171: 539-550; Gao Y, et al. Nutrient Cycling in Agroecosystems, 2009, 263-273 2.There are not any discussion on the erosion mechanism for purple soil, which should focus on the relationship between nutrient loss and soil erosion. Author should also refer some lately research, such as Gao Y et al., Journal of Hydrology, 2014, 517: 447-457; Gao Y et al., Journal of Hydrology, 2014, 511, 692-702; Gao Y et al., Journal of Hydrology, 2012, (420-421): 373-379. 3.In addition, author should supplement a table to calculate the total sediment under different rainfall intensity and compare soil erosion rate. And also need some explanation and discussion. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "An experimental study of rill sediment delivery in purple soil, using the volume-replacement method (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1220v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
See below
Experimental design
label_ed_2
See below
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See below
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this manuscript the " volume-replacement method” was used to measure the volume of eroded purple soil under simulated rainfall. According to the authors, the results showed that soil erosion increased with rill length before eventually reaching a maximal value. The increasing rate of soil erosion was greatest at the rill inlet and then gradually slowed down. And slope gradient and flow rate might both result in increases in soil erosion. Through this experimental work, more understanding of rill erosion processes of purple soil (a kind of regosol) were added for the modellers of soil erosion in the region. This study is very interesting and has potential value for the scientific community, although the manuscript will need to be restructured extensively. Therefore my recommendation is that the manuscript is acceptable after major revision. Specific comments Line 10, “provide estimates for parameter values for simulated models of the erosion process” could be changed as “provide estimates for parameter values in physical models simulating erosion process”. Line 78-89, This paragraph could be switch to results section as it comes from the experimental observation. And they also appear in the Abstract as results. Line 79, Maybe, I am not an expert on soil erosion, I found that although rill erosion is caused by water scouring on the slope, sediment concentration is more meaningful in streams. So, can the authors tell us what happened under flow rate of 8L/min? Does the turbid water flow evidently? Can all the eroded soil particles be transported by the water flow near the upper inlet? Line 164-165, The sentence is telling that the quantity (not quality) of soil erosion was calculated by the soil bulk multiplied with water volume. Line 185, Indeed, I feel that the results and discussion section is weak while the methods section is redundant. Line 186-192, I would suggest that authors should present the results in Fig.2 and fit the data into equation (3). Observation comes first, then modelling. Line 190-191 and 230, How did you speculate that A can be considered to be the maximal potential sediment concentration for purple-soil rill flows and B represents the decay rate for sediment concentration with speed of rill length increasing (1/m)? Is there any literature to support your speculation or just your inference? Line 215-217, How did the author find the more important roles of slope gradients than flow rates? By eyes? I would suggest a statistics approach to identify the importance of the parameters. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "An experimental study of rill sediment delivery in purple soil, using the volume-replacement method (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1220v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Artemi Cerdà ·
Jul 17, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Dear authors, the paper is of quality but you need to improve the introduction and discussion with updated citations and references See attached file
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Is of quality
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The findings are of interest
Comments for the author
Dear author The paper is of quality but you need some improvements with the references Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Cerdà A ( 2015 ) Peer Review #3 of "An experimental study of rill sediment delivery in purple soil, using the volume-replacement method (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1220v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 25, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
