Review History for A game theoretic analysis of research data sharing [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A game theoretic analysis of research data sharing To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 15th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 5th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on August 17th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 24th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Xiaolei Huang
·
Aug 24, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have clarified and answered the questions from reviewers. I am happy to accept this revised version now.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 17, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Xiaolei Huang
·
Aug 5, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I am happy to see the resubmission has been obviously improved by the authors. I apologize for this (maybe) a little bit long review process, it took some time to ask for potential reviewers. Both reviewers suggested minor revisions, and gave their advices on the title of the manuscript and the methods part. I encourage you to make further revisions based on these advices. Personally, I am happy to receive two Minor Revisions from the reviewers, and prepare to accept the manuscript if you will successfully address these issues.
label_author_1
Timothée Poisot ·
Jul 25, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is generally clear, and the model is well explained. My only issue with the reporting would be the title. I read this paper as a preprint, and passed it along to colleagues who thought it would be a "game", as opposed to "game theory". I would suggest something similar to "The game theory of research data sharing", or any other title that emphasizes the game-theoretical underpinning of the research.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments -- the design is robust, and the replies to previous reviewers claims are good. The code to reproduce the figures is given, and citeable, which is a high standard of quality of speaks highly of the authors dedication to data sharing.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusions are expressed in plain language that will be accessible to a broad audience, and (although I disagree with some of the interpretation, see "General comments") are well supported by the experiments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I have a single general comment. Reading through the paper, and the abstract in particular, I had the feeling that the authors were minimizing the potential benefits of strong policies (i.e. mandated data sharing/archival). I'm not sure this is true and/or relevant for a couple of different reasons. 1. By and large, such policies are *already* implemented by journals. 2. The results hold true assuming that all scientists behave rationally with regard to data sharing (which is not true), and especially accept that re-using existing data is an alternative to sampling. I wish these limitations could be discussed in a revision. The last thing we need is less community-level standards for acceptable data sharing practices, and these will take the shape of policies. Cite this review as
Poisot T ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "A game theoretic analysis of research data sharing (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1242v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Gyuri Barabas ·
Jul 28, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is mostly well-written, except the Methods section. I believe this will be very easy to fix though, so it is not a serious problem at all. See my detailed comments below.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The paper contains no experiments. The model study is good but can be improved; see my comments below.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
As far as I understand, the findings are basically sound; see my comments below for possible improvements.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this manuscript the Authors investigate the individual and community-wide costs and benefits of sharing scientific data with the scientific community at large. It is assumed that, once a dataset is published, it can be reused, increasing the productivity of scientists in general, but preparing the dataset for publication has a time cost paid by individual researchers. The Authors set up a game-theoretical model to investigate the costs and benefits associated with data sharing. They consider both a simpler, deterministic version of their model and a more complicated individual-based simulation of the same underlying ideas. Please see my comments on the manuscript below. I begin with broad issues and end with more specific coments. BROAD ISSUES Though the manuscript is generally well-written and easy to follow, this is not true of the Methods, which could be streamlined somewhat (see some of my further comments below, trying to help with this issue). My most important concern is that of Equation 3. There are two problems here. First, the equations are dimensionally incorrect ([T] = years/paper, but [t] = years), which needs to be fixed. Second, unless I misunderstood something, the equation contains the same search times and "get-to-know" times whether researchers share data or not. But if researchers prepare their own dataset, they 1) may not have had to search for one to begin with, making the searching time possibly zero; and 2) definitely did not have to spend any time on getting to know the dataset they themselves created. I am wondering if this could be incorporated into the model to see if it changes any of the results substantially. SPECIFIC COMMENTS - l.79: "The fixity of c..." -> "We assume c is constant, which means we do not distinguish..." - l.81: "spend" -> "spent" - l.83: "and this adds to the impact of that paper with b" -> "increasing the impactof that paper by a factor b" - Equations 2, 3, 5, and 7: the fraction lines are not showing up properly. - l.96-98: If I understand correctly, f is not the raw probability, but the per dataset probability of finding an appropriate dataset; otherwise the denominators in Equation 3 would be incorrect. Pease also fix this issue in Table 2. - l.104: "On the contrary" -> "In contrast" - l.123-124: I think it would be notationally easier on readers to write the standard dX / dt instead of d_t X for the time derivative. - l.135-137: Please explain before writing down the equation that this equation is supposed to be the fitting curve (am I right?) for the observed author-publication distribution. E.g.: "A publication rate P_r per researcher is assigned at random to individual researchers. P_r is based on the distribution of seen on Figure 1, fitted with the function [include Equation 6 here]." - l.137, 158: Relating to the same issue: are there other curves that fit well, e.g., lognormal, or power-law? I think it would be worth trying to fit these alternative curves. If they also fit well, it would be interesting to see how and whether the results depended on this choice. If they do not fit well, that's another argument in favor of the exponential curve. Alternatively, the Authors could simply use the empirically observed curve as their probability distribution. Cite this review as
Barabas G ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "A game theoretic analysis of research data sharing (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1242v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 15, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
