Review History for Physical fighting among Egyptian adolescents: social and demographic correlates among a nationally representative sample [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Physical fighting among Egyptian adolescents: social and demographic correlates among a nationally representative sample To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 6th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 4th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on July 16th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 18th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Josep Tur
·
Jul 18, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks to consider editor and referee suggestions. We'll remain waiting for new papers from yours.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 16, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Josep Tur
·
Jun 4, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
This paper deals with an interesting topic, and number of respondents is enough to be representative of the national adolescent behavior. Design of study is appropriate. It needs some amendments before to be accepted to be published in PeerJ. Major. Data used in this study is quite old (2006). Since then several social, economic and political changes have been occurred in Egypt. I suggest actualizing data to better reflect present social situation in Egypt I order to better understand situation of Egyptian adolescents. This opinion is supported by the fact that the authors used actualize references (i.e.: 2012, 2013), and therefore is quite difficult to accept present results obtained at so long time ago from the present time. Minor. Introduction is too long. It must be shortened at least to 1 and half page. Last 4 lines after the declaration of aims (from “Study findings…” to the end) could be deleted and used in the discussion, avoiding repetitions. Methods. Authors must state why the student response rate is 87%. Authors also stated that this is a self-reported study. Did the authors some validation to be sure that the self-reported method is yields appropriate results? If authors use a validated methods, please, give appropriate reference. Discussion Authors must declare in limitations of the study that this is a cross-sectional study, and then no relationships cause-effect can be done.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 3, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This paper is interesting since epidemiological data on individual and social correlates of physical violence in Egyptian adolescents is limited. The results highlight high prevalence rates of adolescent interpersonal violence in Egypt. High rates of depressive symptomatology and bully victimization along with their positive association with physical fighting suggest that interventions aimed at treating and preventing these problems may help mitigate the likelihood of adolescents engaging in violent behavior; involvement in appropriate physical activity in a safe environment may be beneficial as well. The manuscript is well written and structured. The hypothesis and aims are also clearly stated. However, some minor modifications should be made.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Introduction 1. “40%” instead of “40 percent”; and “70%” instead of “70 percent”. 2. The manuscript would benefit is the authors could include page 3 of the introduction section, lines 1-4 and lines 7-11 in a “limitations and strengths” section. Methods 1. The manuscript would benefit if the authors include a table detailing the information on the data variables created. 2. The manuscript would benefit if the authors detail “anxiety and signs of depression” as individual-level variables separately. 3. Please, remove “for Linux (www.linuxmint.com)”. Results 1. Page 1 of the “Results” section: “The mean age of the sample was 13.2 years old” instead of “The mean age of the sample was 13.2 years”. 2. Why the authors included “food insecurity” without discussing this variable? 3. Please, change “Table 3” for “Table 2”. 4. The manuscript would benefit including a table assessing males and females separately since females were less likely than males to be involved in physical fights. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Physical fighting among Egyptian adolescents: social and demographic correlates among a nationally representative sample (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.125v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 6, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
