Review History for Isolation and characterization of 10 polymorphic microsatellite loci for the endangered Galapagos-endemic whitespotted sandbass (Paralabrax albomaculatus) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Isolation and characterization of 10 polymorphic microsatellite loci for the endangered Galapagos-endemic whitespotted sandbass ( Paralabrax albomaculatus) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 1st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 14th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on August 30th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 31st, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Aug 31, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for improving your manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 30, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Aug 14, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please consider all the suggestions in the revised version of the manuscript.
label_author_1
Kimberly Andrews ·
Jul 24, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This paper describes the development of 10 microsatellite loci for a commercially important fish in the Galapagos Marine Reserve. Overall the methods appear appropriate and the microsatellites appear useful. However, several aspects of the text require improvement, as I describe below. Please report the fragment length of sequenced reads (e.g. 150bp) and the number of sequence reads obtained in the raw data. What kind of trimming was conducted in Trimmomatic? For example, were reads trimmed based on quality scores? If so, what were your quality score criteria? What were the numbers of sequence reads after trimming? The authors state they used 70 samples from two geographic locations—how many samples were from each location? Instead of calling these geographic locations “distinct” (which is a bit vague), you might want to state the approximate geographic distance between the two locations. For the loci exhibiting null alleles, it would be helpful for the authors to report estimates of the frequency of null alleles--e.g. this statistic can be calculated using the program FreeNA. This statistic would give readers some indication of the magnitude of the impact the null alleles might have on population genetics analyses. Line 79: This sentence is awkward--should “Although” be changed to “Because”? In the Discussion section, the authors imply that conducting a study using larger sample sizes will inform researchers as to whether the null alleles of 3 loci are problematic for population genetics analyses. It is unclear to me how increasing sample sizes would accomplish this. Please clarify. I do not see any legend explaining what the column headings of the table mean—please add this.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Cite this review as
Andrews K ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Isolation and characterization of 10 polymorphic microsatellite loci for the endangered Galapagos-endemic whitespotted sandbass (Paralabrax albomaculatus) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1253v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Laure Sauné ·
Aug 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is clearly written and provides a very useful set of markers that will be helpful to the community. However, I consider that several minor revisions are needed before the manuscript can be accepted for publication as there is a general lack of details, some of which being critical to ensure repeatability of the experiments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This manuscript can be published after minor revisions. I have some specific comments through the text: Line 46: as the sequencing length could restrain the available microsatellite motifs, it would be necessary to write which sequencing length was done (2x250bp v2 version or 2x300bp v3 version) Line 56: no di-nucleotide repeat markers were kept for screening, the reader should know why the authors decided to restrict their selection (or maybe there is no di-nucleotide 8+ repeats for this species?) Line 59: I could not find any information on the geographic structure of the samples, is it 35 from each population? Line 61: what sequencer was used to run the electrophoresis and what size standard was used as calibration? What software was used to analyze the microsatellite profiles? Line 61: I could not find anywhere which primer is labeled with which dye, neither in this part of the text nor in the table. The reader would need details about the duplexes so they are able to repeat the experiment themselves. Line 64: I would move the sentence “Samples were collected…” to line 44 right before “To obtain microsatellite…” as it provides a required information at this point of the paper. Line70: What method was used to test for Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium and with what software? I am not familiar with microchecker but if its assumption is that null alleles are detected by HW departure then it sounds quite obvious that you would find the same 3 loci. In any case the authors should provide more details. The table requires a detailed legend to provide standalone information where it is not self-explanatory (e.g. I suspect that ATCT (88) means that 88 is the number of repeats, but I may be wrong). Finally the style used when listing the reference is not homogeneous and should be checked. Cite this review as
Sauné L ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Isolation and characterization of 10 polymorphic microsatellite loci for the endangered Galapagos-endemic whitespotted sandbass (Paralabrax albomaculatus) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1253v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 1, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
