Review History for Looking for a generic inhibitor of amyloid-like fibril formation among flavone derivatives [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Looking for a generic inhibitor of amyloid-like fibril formation among flavone derivatives To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 12th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 16th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on August 21st, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 4th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jerson Silva
·
Sep 4, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors properly addressed all the comments and requests of the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 21, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jerson Silva
·
Jul 16, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Particularly, you should add new experiments as suggested by Reviewer 1 and revise the introduction section as recommended by Reviewer 2.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 28, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In general, the manuscript meets all the standards cited in this session. However, I have questions about the employed methodology and suggestions that I believe will improve upon the quality of the work. Those are included in the General Comments for the Author box.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Although measuring the halftime of aggregation by thio-T binding is viable to follow amyloid formation, the negative/positive interference of Thio-T in the aggregation kinetics cannot be totally ruled out. Thio-T can compete with the compounds for binding either to protofibrils or mature ones. Besides, Thio-T can interact with the compound itself. In my point of view, it is important to validate the described methodology using known anti-aggregating compounds (such as EGCG). As EGCG has been shown to be a generic inhibitor of amyloid fibril formation (as cited by the authors), using this compound as a positive control would be of value. To prove that a compound is a true inhibitor of amyloid aggregation, the authors should do a complementary analysis, such as Congo red binding, binding to amyloid-specific antibodies, or TEM, etc. In my opinion, this is the only way how they can assure that the flavones (or any other compound) are truly inhibiting alpha-syn aggregation and are not inhibiting Abeta aggregation into ordered fibrils. Abeta used in this study is produced by heterologous expression in bacteria. How do the authors guarantee that they are working with monomeric material? In general, authors work with Abeta1-42 produced by synthesis in solid phase. Typos: Lines 62-63. Correct to: “Recently, we demonstrated the ability to avoid false-positives in ThT fluorescence assay-based screening by comparing halftimes of aggregation…” Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Looking for a generic inhibitor of amyloid-like fibril formation among flavone derivatives (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1271v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is interesting yet the motivation, background and selection of compound should be better explained. It is not clear why flavones were selected as the lead compounds (aromatic interactions? other reasons?) A QSAR analysis would be useful to make the manuscript more significant as many such works on screening on libraries are available
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Fair
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Fair
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
There are thousands of works on the inhibition of amyloid formation by small aromatic molecules. This should be presented either by citing more comprehensive review or better presentation in the "Introduction" section Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Looking for a generic inhibitor of amyloid-like fibril formation among flavone derivatives (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1271v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 12, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
