Review History for Biomedical literature classification using encyclopedic knowledge: a Wikipedia-based bag-of-concepts approach [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Biomedical literature classification using encyclopedic knowledge: a Wikipedia-based bag-of-concepts approach To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 3rd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 24th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on September 7th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 7th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
George Perry
·
Sep 7, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the issues raised
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 7, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
George Perry
·
Aug 24, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Look forward to receiving your revision George
label_author_1
Aaron Sorensen ·
Aug 19, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Very thorough and well-considered paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
It was troubling to me that the authors used "scraping techniques" to capture MEDLINE content. As far as I know, they could have simply downloaded all articles and metadata for MEDLINE 2014. The fact that they created their own scaping program, makes one worry that, if they made the smallest mistake, all of their UVigoMed results could be incorrect due to raw-data issues. I would strongly recommend that they simply download all 2014 MEDLINE articles & metadata and rerun their experiments to make sure they get the same results as reported in the current version of the manuscript.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors do a good job of motivating their work early by saying, "Biomedical staff and researchers have to deal with a lot of literature in their daily activities, so it would be useful a system that allows for accessing to documents of interest in a simple and effective way." A real opportunity was missed, in my opinion, not to get input from such people (i.e. the colleagues of the authors) on the results of the BoC approach. What would have been especially powerful is to have taken the instances where the BoC was not in agreement with the NLM's disease categorization for a given article and to ask them whether they felt that BoC categorization was better or worse than the NLM categorization. In other words, what if this new approach is preferred over the official MEDLINE categorization by Vigo biomedical-research and clinical practitioners for some small subset of papers? That would be truly groundbreaking. If the authors do not want to try to add this to the current analysis, I would suggest that they at least add it to the Discussion as part of a Future-Directions subsection.
Cite this review as
Sorensen A ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Biomedical literature classification using encyclopedic knowledge: a Wikipedia-based bag-of-concepts approach (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1279v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 21, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
With regards to literature review, the authors should spend more time outlining the specifics regarding the suboptimal nature of the BoW model. Little time is spent here even though it is the foundation of the study. "Suboptimal" does not provide much information. By contrast, the Background section (121) seems superfluous. More time should be spent on the BoW and less on extraneous ways of doing BoC, unless the authors can link this section to the experiment more clearly.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Regarding the experimental design, this section is unclear: (336-343)". How does the creation of the BoC compare to the process for creating or obtaining BoW?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No issues
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The article uses a casual style with less precision than might conform to professional standards of expression. The reader often has to go back to reread due to poor word use and sentence structure (see lines 75-78 for an example). Indicating that "several experiments" were conducted (230-231) is too imprecise for experimental language. A quick review of the piece by a colleague should find the errors in syntax, and the more casual or imprecise uses of language can be addressed by the author. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Biomedical literature classification using encyclopedic knowledge: a Wikipedia-based bag-of-concepts approach (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1279v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 3, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
