Review History for Association among smoking, depression, and anxiety: findings from a representative sample of Korean adolescents [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Association among smoking, depression, and anxiety: findings from a representative sample of Korean adolescents To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 13th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 26th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on September 7th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on September 11th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 11th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Bob Patton
·
Sep 11, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your submission. I am pleased to tell you that this has now been accepted for publication.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 11, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Bob Patton
·
Sep 7, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for your submission. I am satisfied that you have addressed the concerns of the two previous reviewers. However there are still a number of instances where your use of English requires additional copy editing (e.g. p13 lines 3, 9, 17; p15 line 4, 8; p16 line 17) - please attend to these and resubmit.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 7, 2015
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Bob Patton
·
Aug 26, 2015
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please update your literature review with additional recent references. There are a number of typographical errors that should be addressed.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 12, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article includes a good introduction and background of the topic. There are a few spelling mistakes - for example ‘pool’ instead of poor, ‘compounding’ instead of confounding.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The study is very relevant and meaningful. The research question and methods are described sufficiently well.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data are robust, though I think the reporting of the findings could be made clearer. Some of the data are described both in the body of the text and tables, rather just one or the other. I was easily confused by the way table 1 is presented. The table reads as if higher percentages of the non-smoking adolescents report poorer health, more depression and anxiety compared to smokers. I think a busy reader would find it easier to understand if these were presented differently. In the background the author presents a fairly balanced view of the literature, though the discussion leans towards studies that support rather support and refute the findings. The limitations and conclusions however are appropriately described.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Association among smoking, depression, and anxiety: findings from a representative sample of Korean adolescents (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1288v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 24, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
meets basic reporting requirements
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The article does not have an experimental design but has a clearly defined focus. It meets the other criteria for the journal
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The conclusion is very brief and would benefit from being more developed.
Comments for the author
This is a paper that focuses on smoking, depression, and anxiety among Korea adolescents using a large sample of middle and high school students. While this is an important topic, it is not clear that the paper provides much new information. There are some recent articles from the past two years that are not included in the paper that shed some light on this topic. The paper would benefit from adding some of this more recent literature and then clearly identifying the gap in the research that this paper addresses. As it reads now, this is not clear. In addition, the paper could be tightened up quite a bit, particularly in the discussion. My other specific comments are as follows: Abstract, line 9- missing a word (were?) Is the data set from 2001 (abstract) or 2011 (line 73)? In a couple of parts the paper seems to be more medically focused (2nd paragraph of intro and later in the discussion) which does not seem relevant and distracts from the paper. Line 79, the phrase “investigating the reality” is a bit awkward. Line 100- the variable “daily smoking number of times” is awkwardly worded too. Same paragraph (line 100) - the classification of being a smoker vs. a non-smoker does not seem to fit adolescent smoking in this context. Please clarify if this WHO definition was used with adolescents in the past. It does not seem to be a developmentally appropriate definition Lines 131- sentence is hard to understand and needs to be reworded. 134- “interval” should be” intervals” Conclusion is only two sentences and needs to be more developed Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Association among smoking, depression, and anxiety: findings from a representative sample of Korean adolescents (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1288v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 13, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
