Review History for Intraspecific variation of phragmocone chamber volumes throughout ontogeny in the modern nautilid Nautilus and the Jurassic ammonite Normannites [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Intraspecific variation of phragmocone chamber volumes throughout ontogeny in the modern nautilid Nautilus and the Jurassic ammonite Normannites To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 19th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 13th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on August 26th, 2015 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on September 14th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 18th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Laura Wilson
·
Sep 18, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors are thanked for addressing all the minor wording points raised in the last round of reviews in a timely manner, and for a thorough justification of their approach to calculating volume measures. I think these changes have now fully addressed all comments to the manuscript and that this version is ready for publication. I look forward to seeing your article published.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 14, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Laura Wilson
·
Sep 10, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors, Thank you for carefully revising your earlier manuscript in line with comments from the reviewers. Reviewer #1 considers the revised version to be much improved and almost ready for publication pending some minor revisions. I agree with the Reviewer's comments, and ask if you could please follow their suggestion to include more details of the percentage error in volume estimation in the text. In re-reading your paper I have very few additional comments, beyond a couple of minor wording suggestions, below: Pg4, ln57: “Now complete..” this sentence is a fragment and needs to be reworded Pg6, Ln86: suggest adding “process” after “segmentation” Pg9, ln165: I would rephrase, “But of course” Pg17, ln333: “food availability is also a possible explanation”. This is vague and could be rephrased to add clarity to this sentence – i.e. by stating “lack of food”. Otherwise, this sentence could be deleted. Pg 18, ln356: in favour of economy, “appear to imply” could be replaced by “suggest”
label_author_1
Robert Lemanis ·
Sep 1, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I think this version of the manuscript is clearly improved from the previous version. I have included an annotated pdf with some minor corrections to language and comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Experimental questions have been clearly stated and addressed in the text.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The supplemental table detailing the error estimates for Nautilus are much appreciated. However the range of this error in volume should be more clearly stated in the text. The error is up to as much as about 90% which means that a good portion of the variability in chamber volume for any given chamber may be largely explained by error. The readers should be made aware of this more clearly. If possible, it would also be nice if the two Normanittes specimens can be subjected to the same treatment. Of course you can't measure the actual weight or volume of the shell but compare the reconstructed volume with the volume of the same labelfield/stl that has been expanded by a voxel layer. This is not as reliable as what you did with Nautilus but it can give us an idea about the sensitivity of the data to segmentation and resolution.
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Lemanis R ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Intraspecific variation of phragmocone chamber volumes throughout ontogeny in the modern nautilid Nautilus and the Jurassic ammonite Normannites (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1306v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 26, 2015
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Laura Wilson
·
Jul 13, 2015
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear authors, I have now received two reviews for your manuscript entitled, Intraspecific variation of phragmocone chamber volumes throughout ontogeny in modern Nautilus and the Jurassic ammonite Normannites. Both reviewers think the paper is an important, data-rich study that will make a valuable contribution to the literature on variation in conch volume and geometry, with considerable broader implications for palaeobiology and palaeoecology. I agree with their positive comments, and I think this paper will make a valuable addition following some revisions. Overall, Reviewer #2 (open review: Mathew Knauss) has made some minor, helpful points, particularly the suggestion for a summary figure or additional paragraph in the discussion to better contextualize the results in terms of previous studies on intraspecific variation would be a valuable enhancement to the paper. Reviewer #1 (open review: Robert Lemanis) has listed some slightly more extensive comments that the authors should pay careful attention to in a revised version. Particularly, please note suggestions made to improve clarity of the methods (regarding scanning parameters, and additional references). Reviewer #1 also suggests the authors may wish to calculate the correlation coefficient between width and volume (see comment line 339), and has flagged up several queries regarding the conclusions drawn from the data presented. Please address those fully. Finally, Reviewer #1 has made some suggestions regarding improvements to the graphs presented in several figures, these will be helpful to the reader and should be quick to resolve (consistent use of symbol color/shape for each sex across graphs, for example). I have added some minor editorial suggestions in the attached pdf, please also take care to check that all citations in the text are listed in the reference section of the paper. I would look forward to receiving a revised version of your paper in the near future.
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_2
Robert Lemanis ·
Jun 29, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall the structure of the manuscript is clear. Some improvements can be made such as moving the description of the statistical analysis from the discussion to the results section. Improvements regarding the clarity and structure of the figures can be made, these are elaborated in the comments provided on the annotated manuscript. Some references cited in the text are not in the reference list and some additional useful references are suggested in the attached manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Hypothesis to be tested are clearly stated in the introduction. However, further information should be added to the methods section that is important in both the evaluation of the data presented and reproducibility of the data. There are some significant misconceptions about some of the methods used in the paper that need to be addressed. Furthermore significant sources of error are not adequately addressed and presented.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
As mentioned above, misconceptions about sources of error are present and therefore these errors are not included in a discussion of the data. It is difficult to say how this affects the conclusions. Some of the presented conclusions don’t seem to follow from the actual presented data. Some concluding statements seem somewhat contradictory to other statements in the manuscript (these are commented upon in the annotated attachment).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall I think this is a good paper and an important study. Variability in volumetrics is an important topic to address and the sheer number of specimens you worked on is very impressive. That being said there are several significant misconceptions presented in the paper and I would like to see some additional data presented. With significant revisions this can be a very interesting paper especially given the fact that the application of quantitative tomographic techniques to cephalopods is a new field. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Lemanis R ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Intraspecific variation of phragmocone chamber volumes throughout ontogeny in the modern nautilid Nautilus and the Jurassic ammonite Normannites (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1306v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Mathew Knauss ·
Jul 5, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Overall, I would conclude that this is a great contribution to science. The study provides an excellent, concise background to the issue at hand: accurately calculating buoyancy in the conchs of cephalopods, which has implications for understanding ontogeny, inter/intraspecific variation, and paleoecology of extinct groups. The authors chose a large sample size of Nautilus in which to study, and while the sample size for Normannites is less than preferable for any field of science, the authors explain the issues encountered when trying to generate three-dimensional models from tomographic datasets (e.g., sufficient density contrast, time necessary for processing, etc.). I have some corrections to the text that would make this submission more polished and will be easy for the authors to incorporate. Line 92: The "," after the "and" is not necessary. Line 93: You are missing a word: "...application OF this method for recent Nautilus." Line 100-101: Incorrect subject-verb agreement: "Volumetric analyses...HAVE not previously been analyzed..." (change "has" to "have"). Line 135: You might need a citation for Adobe Illustrator. Line 136: You might need a citation for VGstudiomax 2.1. Line 144: Add a space between the value and its units, such that it says "0.2 mm." Line 146: You might need a citation for Avizo 8.1 (I believe it is FEI Visualization Sciences Group). Line 158: You should cite Meshlab (I believe it is ISTI- CNR research center). Line 206: You are missing the last word of the sentence; "...were negligible for our STUDY (Fig. 6B)." Line 245: I would change "...and the probably nearly identical conch mass" to something like this: "....and ITS most-likely identical conch mass." Changing "the" to "its" creates consistency for each thing listed and replacing the dual adverb "probably nearly" with something like "most-likely" is less awkward to read. Line 267: You might have an extra space between "which" and "states." I would just check that. Line 331: Change "grow" to "growth." Line 359: I think you are missing a word. Perhaps, just change "in previous" to just "previously" to make it more concise. Line 426: In the Gotz, 2003 citation, you need a space in "GeolCroat" so that it becomes "Geol Croat." Line 503: In the Tanabe and Tsukahara, 2010 citation, you have a typo. Change "Biometrie" to "Biometric."
Experimental design
label_ed_3
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Overall, the conclusions made by the authors are consistent with the results and figures. The discussion of the manuscript hits all the major points that could explain the results. However, it would be nice to see a more in depth discussion on how the results presented in this manuscript relate to those found in previous studies regarding interspecific variation. One way to do that may involve creating an additional figure that summarizes the results of this study along with those of Naglik et al., 2015a and 2015b (or any other related study, if permitted). While these studies really don't hit intraspecific variation, there is still much that could be said about the overall trends between ammonoids and Nautilus.
Comments for the author
No comments. Cite this review as
Knauss MJ ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Intraspecific variation of phragmocone chamber volumes throughout ontogeny in the modern nautilid Nautilus and the Jurassic ammonite Normannites (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1306v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 19, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
