Review History for Is there a hybridization barrier between Gentiana lutea color morphs? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Is there a hybridization barrier between Gentiana lutea color morphs? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 21st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 2nd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on September 15th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 19th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Christopher Lortie
·
Sep 19, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the recommendations of both referees.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 15, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Christopher Lortie
·
Sep 2, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both referees provided excellent feedback and suggestions. Please address as best you can.
label_author_1
Laryssa Baldridge ·
Aug 30, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article is well written, and in clear english. However, there are a few instances where word choice or sentence structure cause some confusion. Examples include: Line 151 "we controlled germination", do you mean you measured germination rate, or that this was a controlled study? Line 153 "viable and harsh", harsh doesn't make sense in this context. Lines 191 and 192 "were similar for within-color variety crossings than for among color..", 'than' should be 'as'. Line 220 "flower sap", is that different than nectar? In the figure legends, the letters above the data points, indicating significance, should be clearly explained. Are they all the same level of significance? If not, how are they different?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The findings of this set of experiment are fairly straight forward and well defined. Your hypothesis was clearly stated and the experiments were correctly chosen to address that hypothesis. Apart from the minor wording issues, this paper is well written and easily readable. The attached PDF should have highlighting for the sentences that caused me some confusion. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Baldridge L ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Is there a hybridization barrier between Gentiana lutea color morphs? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1308v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 1, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The writing could be improved throughout, particularly the introduction and discussion where the text is incoherent in places, and poorly focused. See my comments to the authors below.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experimental design and statistics are good!
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This study examines mechanisms of reproductive isolation between sympatric flower-color morphs of Genetiana lutea in NW Spain. The primary goals were to determine the degree of post-pollination, prezygotic and intrinsic postzygotic isolation, and the degree to which the two morphs are dependent on pollinators for successful reproduction. The authors found an impressive 40-50% reduction in seed viability in hybrid crosses, and that both morphs are nearly completely dependent on pollinators for successful reproduction. Together, these results have interesting implications for reproductive isolation and co-existence of these two sympatric color-morphs, and set the stage for future work. In particular, the nearly 50% reduction in hybrid seed viability should strongly select for traits that reduce pollen movement between color morphs (e.g., phenological shifts to avoid co-flowering, or traits that increase pollinator constancy within color morph). Additionally, the strong correlation between flower color and seed viability begs the question of whether there is a major genetic incompatibility that is pleiotropic or just tightly linked with flower color. The experimental design and analyses were nicely done. My primary advice is to tighten the introduction and discussion around the key findings, and to clarify some of the text. For example, after reading the first two paragraphs of the introduction, it seems like this paper is going to examine pollinator preference or constancy to flower color (paragraph 2’s main focus), which is not the case. Line 15 and 16: This is not an either/or statement. It is possible for secondary contact and speciation to be underway. Line 17 and 18: Do you mean here that flower color is heritable, and not determined by the local environment? Or do you mean that local abiotic environment does not select on flower color, as demonstrated by common gardens? Either way, although important to include in the main text, this seems an aside at this early stage in the abstract. Consider leaving this out of the abstract. Line 18-19: The sentence “But, pollinators cause…” is not clear and has some grammar problems. Revise. Line 21: Consider adding the word sympatric here, e.g., “Within a sympatric population containing both flower-color morphs, we…” Line 24-25: Would help to state the magnitude of reduced seed viability, as it is quite impressive judging from Figure 2! Line 26 and 27: Consider dropping the “Regardless of the sympatric origin of G. luetea flower color,” Line 28-29: The conclusion that the hybrid incompatibility is “driven by pollinators” is misleading. The incompatibility resulting in reduced seed viability is likely a genetic incompatibility, but is not itself driven by pollinators. IF pollinators move between the two color morphs (not tested in this study), then this incompatibility will lead to substantially reduced fitness, contributing to reproductive isolation between the two color morphs. Line 77-79: The last part of this sentence is unclear and speculative since it isn’t tested in this study: “, which might be caused or reinforced by selective pressures exerted by pollinators on G. lutea flower color.” Consider leaving this out. Line 82-83: what do you mean by “under a diversification process”? Line 134: Change to “proportion of viable seeds” Line 135-136: This is not clear. Did you end up with 26 treatment plants total (down from the original 50)? How many treatment plants per morph then, 13 and 13? Line 153: typo. Change “harsh” to “hard”. Line 194-195: What is the percent decrease in seed viability for between relative to within morph crosses? It looks impressive from figure 2! Line 197: Again, what is the percent decrease in the number of seeds in selfed vs. outcrossed fruits? Line 203-204: You might stress here, that even though there was a significant difference between the two morphs in the number of automatically selfed seeds per fruit, both morphs produced very few seeds automatically relative to outcrossed flowers. Line 216: The second half of this sentence is unclear: “,likely due to a past or ongoing divergence between G. lutea varieties.” Maybe instead you mean something like, “likely due to a genetic incompatibility that reduces seed viability”? Line 287-289: This final sentence is more or less repeated several times earlier in the paper. It struck me as strange each time. Why are you emphasizing the “Regardless of the origin”? Also, do you mean the geographic origin being allopatric or sympatric? Also, because you don’t test (in this paper) whether pollinators are selecting on flower color, it seems strange to emphasize this point so many times. Avoid repetition and clarify or drop this sentence. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Is there a hybridization barrier between Gentiana lutea color morphs? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1308v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 21, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
