Review History for Intergenic incompatibilities reduce fitness in hybrids of extremely closely related bacteriophages [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Intergenic incompatibilities reduce fitness in hybrids of extremely closely related bacteriophages To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 26th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 30th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on September 22nd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 23rd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alexander Mikheyev
·
Sep 23, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
This manuscript received uncommonly positive comments from all three reviewers. They all agreed that this is an interesting study, and the authors have dealt with the few minor suggestions made during review.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 22, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alexander Mikheyev
·
Aug 30, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
All three reviewers concurred that this is a well-done study, and most of the comments have to do with the clarity of the manuscript. I think this manuscript should be suitable for publication after the reviewer's comments are addressed. I would also urge the authors to have the manuscript proofread by someone else for clarity.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 27, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Excellent
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Excellent
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Seem totally valid
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a really interesting, well written paper describing some well thought our experimental work on the fitness impacts of recombination in microvruses. I like it a lot and have no changes to suggest. I would be very interested to see in the future whether, besides compensatory mutation events, bacteria coinfected with more complex reciprocal chimaeras than those used here are able to produce fitter genomes through compensatory recombination. It may be possible to accurately identify large numbers of interacting sites by simply looking at patterns of sites that tend to be coinherited from the original wt viruses. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Intergenic incompatibilities reduce fitness in hybrids of extremely closely related bacteriophages (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1320v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
James Bull ·
Jul 27, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No substantial comments. The raw fitness data are provided. The other data that might be included are the sequencing data used to identify the mutations, but those data are probably Sanger sequences of just a few thousand bases, and all relevant findings are in the paper. So there is likely nothing gained by providing or depositing those.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The study follows previously published work of the same nature. The difference here lies only in the strains used and in their similarities/divergence. The work is thus straightforward and easy to follow.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The interpretation of the data seems straightforward. I have a few quibbles about stats. First, lines 8-11 under Results and Discussion state: "Replacement of the allele for gene F in the ID12 genome by the homolog from NC6 resulted in a phage, ID12-NC6F, with fitness 23.7 ± 0.33, slightly higher than the fitness of its primary ancestor, ID12. The fitness of ID12-NC6F did not differ significantly from the fitness of its ID12 ancestor (t-test, two-sided, unequal variance, P = 0.50; Figure 1)." This is a bit misleading; better and shorter to say that the estimated fitness is slightly higher but not significantly so. Second, in calculating the expected fitnesses under the different "F contribution to fitness" models, I would expect those calculations to include standard errors (which may not be trivial to calculate). Note that what is really being considered is the contribution of variation in F to variation in fitness. It makes no sense to talk about the contribution to fitness of an essential gene.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Introduction: Roger Hendrix is probably the person most responsible for our appreciation of recombination in phages. His work should be cited. There is also a famous 1970s paper by David Botstein in which he proposed modular evolution of phages by recombination. There are very different issues between the evolution of recombinants in nature (where you never see the possibly 99.9% of recombinants that are bad) and artificial recombinants produced in the lab, in which you see the entire distribution of fitness effects. I would partition the Introduction accordingly. A recent Science paper by Ed Marcotte's group did human gene substitutions in baker's yeast on a massive scale. Also, Paul Nurse won a Nobel prize from a gene substitution between fission yeast and humans. Those papers may (?) help provide a broad context for the study. Results and Discussion: The subheading "Hybrid incompatibilities evolve quickly" does not describe the contents of that subsection. I also think that all of the alternative epistasis models and calculations in that subsection could go in a table, so that the text could focus on higher level issues. Figure 1 might benefit from a display of statistically significant differences within each cluster. Maybe this is not practical, however. Cite this review as
Bull JJ ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Intergenic incompatibilities reduce fitness in hybrids of extremely closely related bacteriophages (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1320v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Aug 25, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Sackman et al reciprocally swap a structural protein between two very similar bacteriophages, and find that there is a small but significant effect on fitness in one of the cases. The authors then evolve each recombinant phage and identify the first mutation to sweep in each case. These mutations have no measurable effect on growth rate, but are assumed to be beneficial because they swept to fixation. The mutation in one of the recombinants was determined to be in a region involved in protein-protein interactions. I think that this manuscript would benefit from a more rigorous definition and testing of the epistasis. Condensing the manuscript would likely improve the clarity. It is confusing that figure 1 contains multiple bars which represent the exact same data.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The expectations for epistasis should be more quantitatively explained.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data are robust, statistically sound and controlled.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #3 of "Intergenic incompatibilities reduce fitness in hybrids of extremely closely related bacteriophages (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1320v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 26, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
