Review History for Persistent and extreme outliers in causes of death by state, 1999–2013 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Persistent and extreme outliers in causes of death by state, 1999–2013 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 13th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 19th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on September 28th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 29th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Bob Patton
·
Sep 29, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the revised version of your paper. I am pleased to accept this paper for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 28, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Bob Patton
·
Sep 19, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for your submission which has been well received by our reviewers. We would like you to address the points raised by reviewer 1 regarding data suppression and reliability. Reviewer 2 suggests that you consider removing the figures, however I think that these do add to the understanding of the data (particularly to readers with limited knowledge of US geography), therefore I will leave it up to you to decide whether to adopt their suggested revision.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 8, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article appears to adhere to all PeerJ policies listed. It is clearly written and makes a convincing argument about the problems that arise from inconsistencies in how deaths are coded across the country.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Research question is clearly defined. Methods described with sufficient detail. Some additional comments that may help the reader understand the data a little better: 1. It will be helpful if the author provided brief comments on the impact of suppression. For example, how many data points were removed from the analysis and would they have any significant impact on the analysis. 2. When using data from CDC WONDER, rates are sometimes marked as "unreliable" - did the author encounter any instances of such rates?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No additional comments other than the ones noted in the "Experimental Design" section.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Persistent and extreme outliers in causes of death by state, 1999–2013 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1336v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Joshua Klugman ·
Sep 12, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This article more or less adheres to PeerJ policies regarding basic reporting. However, I would suggest to the editor and the author that the figures are redundant, since the same information is presented in tables, and this is one of the rare instances where tables are more informative than graphs. What is the point of showing a map of the United States, putting a symbol for various causes of death in states with persistent or extreme outliers, and force the reviewer to consult a lengthy legend at the bottom?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This article does not involve an experimental design. It is an analysis of publicly available mortality rates for all of the United States plus Washington, D.C. However, in my discipline (sociology) this investigation would still be considered "primary research". The analyses are fairly basic. It classifies states as being persistent or extreme outliers based on the ratio of the state's age-adjusted death rate to the nationwide age-adjusted death rate (for various causes of death). This kind of presentation is straight-forward and has the virtue of being understandable by lay audiences (it also has the virtue of being easily reproducible; I was able to reproduce one of the relative risks presented in the paper). I don't see how the findings could be artifacts of the analysis.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data is fine, and Boscoe is thoughtful when discussing why some states have persistent and/or extreme outliers, acknowledging that sometimes the rates may reflect truly higher levels of a cause of death (e.g. black lung disease in W Virginia) or they may reflect measurement error.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I thought the findings about the drop in the number of extreme outliers was interesting, suggesting that death statistic collection is becoming increasingly standardized across locales within states. Cite this review as
Klugman J ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Persistent and extreme outliers in causes of death by state, 1999–2013 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1336v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Rebekah Kharrazi ·
Sep 19, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_3
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No comment
Comments for the author
This is a well-written paper with clear, replicable methodologies that identifies “persistent” and “extreme” outliers (defined by the author) of age-adjusted state mortality rates as compared to national rates and explores whether the observed rates might be due to a true excess or to differing coding practices among states. Cite this review as
Kharrazi R ( 2015 ) Peer Review #3 of "Persistent and extreme outliers in causes of death by state, 1999–2013 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1336v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 13, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
