Review History for The emerin-binding transcription factor Lmo7 is regulated by association with p130Cas at focal adhesions [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The emerin-binding transcription factor Lmo7 is regulated by association with p130Cas at focal adhesions To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 14th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 2nd, 2013. The first revision was submitted on July 25th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 29th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tokuko Haraguchi
·
Jul 29, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
This is very nice paper important for understanding the molecular mechanisms of X-linked Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 25, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tokuko Haraguchi
·
May 2, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
This paper is very interesting and will provide important information to understand EDMD disease, thus it should be published soon. However, some of the image data are not clear as one of the reviewers suggested. For instance, Lmo7 and p130Cas in Figs. 3B and 3C are closely localized, but NOT co-localized. This paper will be greatly improved if you could provide better cell images as the reviewer suggest. I think this revision can be minor. But just in case you need time to get data enough to revise, I suggest "major" revision. I hope the reviewer's suggestions are helpful.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 30, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a well written and concise study that is both interesting and novel
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1) Figure 1. The authors show focal adhesion staining of Lmo7 after 2 hours of cell spreading. Are the cells fully spread at this time point? It would be helpful to show an earlier and later time point (30mins and 6hrs) to confirm Lmo7 remains at focal adhesions throughout. 2) Figures 1, 3 and 4. In all these figures the authors show focal adhesion localisation. There is a lot of signal in the cell body. These images need to be more convincing. The quality of image could be improved greatly by using TIRF (Total Internal Reflection Fluorescence) microscopy. If not available, could confocal microscopy be used to image the bottom of the cells? 3) Figure 3C. The localisation of p130Cas looks nuclear as well as cytoplasmic. Is this true? 4) Figure 4. Does Lmo7 knockdown in the p130Cas null MEFs restore levels of Lmo7 targets to that of the control? This would confirm that Lmo7 is responsible for these changes. 5) Does Emerin over expression/knockdown impact on this pathway? Does emerin regulate the nuclear localisation of Lmo7? If true, increased emerin levels my prevent localisation of Lmo7 to focal adhesions. 6) Does Lmo7 knockdown, p130Cas disruption and emerin disruption interfere with cell adhesion and motility? This might be expected if these proteins are regulating cellular mechanics.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are robust and conclusions are clearly stated.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "The emerin-binding transcription factor Lmo7 is regulated by association with p130Cas at focal adhesions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.134v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 29, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Regulation of Lmo7, a transcriptional factor known to regulate muscle- and heart-relevant genes, has been considered to contribute in EDMD disease because emerin binding negatively regulate a transcriptional activity of Lmo7. Lmo7 is known to associate adhesions, and shuttle between the plasma membrane and nucleus, although physiological significance of such cellular localization of Lmo7 has not been shown. In order to dissect the possibility that Lmo7 is involved in transmitting adhesion signals to the nucleus, the authors examine subcellular localization of endogenous Lmo7 by IF, and show that it is associated with focal adhesions of cells. The authors further show that Lmo7 co-immunoprecipitates with p130Cas, a major scaffolding and signaling component of focal adhesions. Finally, the authors demonstrate by using p130Cas-null MEFs that nucleocytoplasmic distribution of Lmo7 shift towards cytoplasm, and expressions from genes (six out of nine genes examined) regulated by Lmo7 is altered (show higher Lmo7 activity) in the absence of p130Cas, suggesting that Lmo7 activity is negatively regulated through the association with p130Cas at focal adhesions. The results support the notion that the shuttling transcription factor Lmo7 transmit adhesion signals to the nucleus. I think approaches used in the present manuscript are straightforward, experiments are performed carefully and presented clearly, and they are carefully discussed. I like an overall story. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "The emerin-binding transcription factor Lmo7 is regulated by association with p130Cas at focal adhesions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.134v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 14, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
