Review History for Evaluation of nutritional and economic feed values of spent coffee grounds and Artemisia princeps residues as a ruminant feed using in vitro ruminal fermentation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evaluation of nutritional and economic feed values of spent coffee grounds and Artemisia princeps residues as a ruminant feed using in vitro ruminal fermentation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 14th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 9th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on September 30th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 1st, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Maria Rosaria Corbo
·
Oct 1, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Seo, I'm pleased to inform you that your paper in its revised form is now suitable for publication on PeerJ. Best regards, Maria Rosaria Corbo
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 30, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Maria Rosaria Corbo
·
Sep 9, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Dr Seo, Thank you for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. Two expert reviewers have examined it and after careful consideration, we feel that it has merit but is not suitable for publication as it currently stands. We invite you to submit a revised version that addresses the points raised. Yours sincerely, Maria Rosaria Corbo
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 4, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
See below
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Material and methods Line 133: the author should report the name of the buffer used to mix the rumen fluid
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Introduction: The author should revise the references and delete the oldest. Line 77: the author should add “total mixed rations” besides its abbreviation in this line. Results: Line 196-200; table 2: the author should rewrite this passage to make it easier to match with the table. Line 198 – 199- 206- 211-215: The author should clarify the unit of measure Line 209: the use of the word trend is not justified; please, change the sentence (e.g: there was a decrement…) in order to avoid misunderstanding. Line 212: the author should write “diet” instead of “treatments” Discussion: In my opinion, the discussion need to be revised and improved in the light of the table modifications written below and rewrite with more criticism. Line 272: the author should delete the word “trend” Table: Table 1 and 2: the author should report the p value of the treatments Table 3: the author should report the standard error of the mean
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The major point of criticism was the discussion section. In my opinion, the discussion need to be deeply revised and improved. I would recommend major revision of the paper before it can be considered for publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evaluation of nutritional and economic feed values of spent coffee grounds and Artemisia princeps residues as a ruminant feed using in vitro ruminal fermentation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1343v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 8, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The effects of such feed supplements require further studies focused on the effects in terms of the nutritional and commercial quality of various food derivatives including meat and milk based products. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Evaluation of nutritional and economic feed values of spent coffee grounds and Artemisia princeps residues as a ruminant feed using in vitro ruminal fermentation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1343v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 14, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
