Review History for Genetic models reveal historical patterns of sea lamprey population fluctuations within Lake Champlain [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Genetic models reveal historical patterns of sea lamprey population fluctuations within Lake Champlain To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 31st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 16th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on October 6th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 12th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Peter Prentis
·
Oct 12, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for making the requested changes to your manuscript. This was a high quality submission and a pleasure to read.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 6, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Peter Prentis
·
Sep 16, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Overall this was a very nice and well put together paper detailing the demographic history of sea lamprey in Lake Champlain. The authors have analyzed the data in the manuscript well, but I agree with reviewer 2 that the amount of segregating sites is quite low. Conclusions have not been overstated and the discussion reads well. Please make the changes requested by the reviewers and I look forward to receiving a revised copy of your manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 4, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Word Document p. 16, Can you report the 95% HPDs for the scaled MSVAR parameters, as you did in the previous paragraph? These parameters are at the heart of your questions regarding demographic history. Figure 3, Is there a way to enlarge the BSP for just the most recent 1000 years, so you can plot the times associated with the hypotheses in the Discussion on it?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Given the genetic differences between Lake Champlain and Atlantic lamprey populations, you could estimate the timing of their divergence using IM or IMa. This might help evaluate the Founder Event hypothesis you discuss.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
You are correct in stating that confidence intervals around time estimates are quite large, but I think you use the correct amount of caution to not overstate your conclusions.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The background and explanation of methods is appropriate - a reader not familiar with the demographic history of lampreys in Lake Champlain andor Coalescent methods will understand this manuscript. Your interpretation of the data is sound, though the large 95% HPDs limit your conclusions. These Coalescent methods are a great tool to model population history - I enjoyed this MS. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Genetic models reveal historical patterns of sea lamprey population fluctuations within Lake Champlain (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1369v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Amy Russell ·
Sep 15, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript was clearly written and appropriately organized. The authors did a good job of explaining the management issues surrounding the historical demography of Lake Champlain sea lampreys and previous work that has been done on this system. Figures were clearly designed, and all were necessary for the paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors clearly addressed the research question of the historical demography of Lake Champlain sea lampreys. The analyses were appropriate, both in scope and rigor. I had one minor question regarding the description of the BSP analyses: •Line 264: I’ve run BSP analyses, and I don’t know what the authors mean by group number. Is this one of the operators? This phrasing needs to be clarified.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I was concerned about the low amount of variation in the mitochondrial data. Between the two regions, there are only 12 segregating sites, 5 of which are indels. Beast treats indels as missing data, and so the BSP analyses are based on only 7 variable sites. However, I think the analyses were conducted appropriately, and the authors adequately addressed the limitations of their data, both in the text and with the sensitivity analyses.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Minor comments: •Line 235: equilibrium should not be capitalized. •Line 330: delete space in 54. Cite this review as
Russell AL ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Genetic models reveal historical patterns of sea lamprey population fluctuations within Lake Champlain (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1369v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 31, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
