Review History for A questionnaire study of injections prescribed and dispensed for patients diagnosed with mild/moderate community-acquired pneumonia in Mongolia [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A questionnaire study of injections prescribed and dispensed for patients diagnosed with mild/moderate community-acquired pneumonia in Mongolia To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 14th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 29th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on September 26th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on October 12th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 13th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Paul Tulkens
·
Oct 13, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
While the paper itself seems correct, I noted that many references are incomplete and/or not in line with the professional standards (it may be very difficult for the reader to access them; for example, "20.Ministry of Health Mongolia. Guideline for ambulatory care 2010" is typically a reference that will be impossible to access...). Please, check with the Editorial staff for correcting this under their guidance.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 12, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Paul Tulkens
·
Sep 26, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
You have satisfactorily answered to most of the critiques raised by the reviewer. I may suggest to further take into account the remark of the reviewer about references in Mongolian. You stated that these are available on request. Is this clear in the paper as submitted ? Can you make these references available on a publicly-accessible server ? This would make your paper stronger.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 26, 2015
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Paul Tulkens
·
Aug 29, 2015
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
We apologize for the long delay in reviewing your paper but we had difficulties in finding appropriate reviewers. Eventually, one reviewer provided a very valuable and detailed review. I myself examined your paper in detail and found all remarks and suggestions of this reviewer quite justified. Because of the extent of the changes required, I also came to the conclusion that your submission needed to be categorized as "major revision" rather than "minor revision" as suggested by the reviewer.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 28, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Basic reporting is fine; for details see comments to authors.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Experimental design (questionnaire) is fine; for details see comments to authors.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Validity of findings is fine; for details see comments to authors.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Review PeerJ „A questionnaire study of injections prescribed and dispensed for patients diagnosed with mild/moderate communityacquired pneumonia in Mongolia” By Gereltuya Dorj, Delia Hendrie, Richard W Parsons, Bruce Sunderland General The authors write a study about a questionnaire survey of drug injections in patients with community acquired pneumonia (CAP). They have published in this field before (refs 17 and 22)1,2. The paper is well written and the topic is an interesting one although limited to a geographical area. There are some issues that need to be clarified as mentioned below. Furthermore, several references are not accessable electronically (e.g. important refs like 23 and 30). Abstract -Conclusion : « ..injection prescribing is a public health hazard .. » this sentence is not in line with the study results. That was not the aim of the study and was not analyzed in detail. The authors should adapt the wording accordingly. Objective -Line 66 and following : The readers should know whether this study was done with adult patients or children because the latter would be expected to show less compliance and getting rather injections in this setting. We learn in line 239 that giving injections to adults is not in line with the local guidelines. Can the reader derive from this, that the study was done with adults only? This should be clarified and added to the objective. Methods -There are questionnaires for doctors, pharmacists and community members in the supplemental documents. There we see that the authors collected much more data than they mention in the paper like how long and how doctors treat their patients with CAP. Why don’t they reveal this data? Is it already published ? The authors should explain themselves. Discussion -Limitations : we don’t know what patients the prescriptions were for, children or adults or both ? There might be different indications for antibiotic injections and patient compliance is certainly different between the two patient groups. Conclusion -Line 277 : « Excessive prescribing of injections… » It is not clear what the comparator is here. I suppose it’s the Mongolian guidelines by Agvaandorj et al (2008)? Unfortunately, this ref. 23 is not electronically available and the international readers should know, what the guidelines in Mongolia are. At least the part regarding treatment of community acquired pneumonia and its treatment should be reproduced and explained in the paper. Tables -Tables: Words like „rarely“, « sometimes » and « often » are quantified in the questionnaire (1-10%, 11-40%, 41-80%) but not in the tables. The authors should mention this quantification in the tables to give the reader a hint about what these expressions mean. -Table 1: footnote b about the value of the Mongolian National Tugrug is not clear : e.g. « Monthly income 90,000-200,000 MNT » in line 406: „b Mongolian National Tugrug, (MNT), currency, equivalent to 1300 USD at the time of study.“ This is not possible (1 MNT=1300 USD ?); the authors should clearly state the value e.g. « 100 USD are equivalent to 2000 MNT » or the like. Minor -Line 72 : spelling of « pharmacists » -Line 121 « technicians (61) » : second parenthesis missing -Line 139 : the word « wasfemale » has to be separated into « was female » -References of statistical output (lines 182, 187, 190): there are just the p-values of interest; the rest is explained in the methods section e.g. line 182 „(p=0.01)“ is sufficient without degrees of freedom etc. -Line 179: „agreed/agreed“ the repeated word should get erased. -Line 200: „..that patients preferred oral medicines than injections (Table 4). » in english it should be « preferred…over » not « than ». -Lines 235-236: „The questionnaire studies with doctors and pharmacists including pharmacy technicians indicated that they chose an injection if the patient was severe.“ This sentence is cut off ; the authors should write a complete sentence like « …if the patient was severly ill. » or something like this. - 1.Dorj G, Hendrie D, Parsons R, Sunderland B. An evaluation of prescribing practices for community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in Mongolia. BMC Health Serv Res 2013;13:379. 2.Dorj G, Sunderland B, Hendrie D, Parsons R. Parenteral Medication Prescriptions, Dispensing and Administration Habits in Mongolia. PLoS ONE 2014;9:e115384. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "A questionnaire study of injections prescribed and dispensed for patients diagnosed with mild/moderate community-acquired pneumonia in Mongolia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1375v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 14, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
