Review History for The Bulimulidae (Mollusca: Pulmonata) from the Región de Atacama, northern Chile [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The Bulimulidae (Mollusca: Pulmonata) from the Región de Atacama, northern Chile To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 19th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 25th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on October 14th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 15th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marcio Pie
·
Oct 15, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Araya, I'm glad to see that you revised your manuscript according to the reviewer's comments and that all of the raised issues have been properly addressed. With respect to the abstract in Spanish, I'm not sure if this is allowed according to the journal's policies, but I'm sure they'll be in touch.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 14, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marcio Pie
·
Sep 25, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Araya, As you'll notice, each reviewer provided a series of small, but valuable, suggestions to the manuscript. Please include as much as possible of those suggestions, and provide a justification for those you disagree with or find unfeasible.
label_author_1
Cleo Oliveira ·
Sep 3, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
MINOR CHANGES - In the abstract, after the “of the seventeen species found”, author should include that among the seventeen species recorded to Atacama desert in this manuscript, part were not found during the field surveys and in this case the records are based on literature/collection material. - Should avoid using Keywords that are already in the title, as “Chile” or “new species”. - Along all the manuscript, information about repository number for MZUC is missing. Must include it. - Should follow a patter in the terminology, using the word “specimen” for shell and soft parts included; and “shell” when only empty shell (even the eroded ones) was found. - “RCG” is an abbreviation used several times (lines 236, 415, 441, 464, 484) but there is no explanation about what “RCG” means in Material and Methods. IMPORTANT CONSIDERATIONS - Bostryx catalani sp. nov. is cited several times in the manuscript (in the remarks of Bostryx breurei sp. nov., Line 182; figured in Figure 3a-c; cited twice in Table 1), but it is not described in any moment, neither the rules of ICZN were followed in this case. - Considering the number of species and characters raised, it is important to include an informative table comparing the species at the end of the manuscript. - For many, if not most, of species studied here, there are no indication of the number of examined specimens or shells. Must include it. It is particularly important for the new species described. Describing new species based on just few specimens can be undesired since small variations as shell outline or colour may represent individual phenotypical variation instead of interspecific variation of characters. - For some species is given an estimative of the number of analysed specimens (e.g. Bostryx erythrostoma, 30+ specimens). But “30+” means any number above 30 specimens, including 40, 50, 100...1000. Should give the exactly number, no excuse. - Line 283: Author considered that Bostryx inaquosum may be an extinct species in the Region of Atacama since it was not found during the fields survey. Such affirmative can not be done, it is very premature, even for such extensive field survey. The only conclusion that can be done here is that no specimens of this taxa were found. - In the “Distribution” topic for the previously known species examined in this manuscript, author usually considered only one or two references dealing with these species. Are those references the only studies concerning the species studied here or are those references the only studies concerning the Atacama desert (and also the species studied here)? There is a huge difference between both statements since if the second one is the case, the distribution of these species can be bigger than the restricted area cited here. - Author gave descriptive morphometrical data for the examined species, but no statistical tests were performed to analyze the significance of such morphometric variation. Of course, it is out of the scope of this manuscript (which is already a big work and a great contribution), but author are encouraged to think about a second manuscript analysing such variation among the species from Atacama desert and how this variation can be related to the areas habited by each species.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
It was a pleasure to review the manuscript, which represents a great contribution on a poorly studied malacological fauna. As all good taxonomic manuscript, it still need further improvements. Cite this review as
Oliveira C ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "The Bulimulidae (Mollusca: Pulmonata) from the Región de Atacama, northern Chile (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1383v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Francisco J. Borrero ·
Sep 17, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The MS is valuable and constructive comments for the author are in the attached file, under Attachments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
There is minimal experimental design that is relevant to this particular study, and the author had adhered to standard methodology, which is well described in the MS. Constructive comments for the author are in the attached file, under Attachments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The finding are valid, well described, and valuable. Constructive comments for the author are in the attached file, under Attachments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
See constructive comments for the author in the attached file, under General comments to the author. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Borrero FJ ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "The Bulimulidae (Mollusca: Pulmonata) from the Región de Atacama, northern Chile (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1383v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Alejandra Rumi ·
Sep 25, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
While work is well presented, gathering valuable background information of the little-known group, the biggest problem is methodological work. To wit: Data on the basis of which have not been reached to distinguish new species described (5 new), even has the number of individuals observed for each of these or to the other already described (in total one entities 17), not the measurements obtained are presented and either a basic and essential statistics. I understand that working with material collection only counts with shells, but also I know that there are very few measures employed as many measurements and soft packages that analyze the specimens under traditional methodologies currently exist, reaching other shape analysis: geometric morphometry. Furthermore, the author mentions that also had live material. Why he did not analyze soft tissue or radula?
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Absent
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
It is essential at least one table of data to verify the descriptions.
Comments for the author
The figures are insufficient. It would be worthwhile to add more details protoconch, eg SEM of new species and highlight the differences with the already described. I also detected some minor bug in MS, but do not consider relevant in this instance dondese needs further modification of the paper Cite this review as
Rumi A ( 2015 ) Peer Review #3 of "The Bulimulidae (Mollusca: Pulmonata) from the Región de Atacama, northern Chile (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1383v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 19, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
