Review History for A predictive screening tool to detect diabetic retinopathy or macular edema in primary health care: construction, validation and implementation on a mobile application [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A predictive screening tool to detect diabetic retinopathy or macular edema in primary health care: construction, validation and implementation on a mobile application To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 31st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 16th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on September 30th, 2015 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 25th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Stephen Macknik
·
Oct 25, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
One of the original reviewers returned to re-review your study, and they were happy with the revisions.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 21, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I agree with the rational behind the study design.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I believe the study is well designed and manuscript is well written and statistically acceptable.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I believe the supplementary information provided by the authors addressed my critics satisfactory. I will recommend the final draft with the most recent adjustments for publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "A predictive screening tool to detect diabetic retinopathy or macular edema in primary health care: construction, validation and implementation on a mobile application (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1404v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 30, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Stephen Macknik
·
Sep 16, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both reviewers were conscientious and indicated constructive criticisms that would improve a revised manuscript. Please follow all of their advice as these reviewers will be asked to review a follow-up revision.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 19, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
1. Overall, the article is well written. However, there are typos and grammatical mistakes that need to be fixed. 2.I believe the submitted article adheres to journal policies. 3.Figures are relevant to the content of the article. 4.The cited literature is appropriate and supports the body of the research. 5. The article includes sufficient introduction and background.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1.Although the authors claim that the purpose of the study is to create a feasible and applicable screening tool for primary care doctors, not all the factors included in this study are easy to obtain in regular primary care offices. One of the major factors that has been used to design and validate the algorithm is foveal thickness that is measured by OCT and demands high level of technical efficiency and availability of the device in the primary care settings. Despite the fact that foveal thickness may have a major role in detecting patients with macular edema, evaluation of this parameter by primary doctors or nursing staff may not be technically and financially possible.( OCT machine is very expensive). Please clarify if the authors think otherwise. 2.Evaluation of a patient with OCT is very useful and will provide detailed information about retina far beyond just foveal thickness. I believe performing an informative test such as OCT only for evaluation of the foveal thickness is counterintuitive when one can evaluate the whole retina structure during the same exam and therefore, perform an accurate assessment of the foveal structure and delineate any other retinal pathology. 3.Otherwise, I found the screening tool helpful for the primary care doctors when dealing with diabetic patients.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
1.The study is statistically acceptable. However, I don’t totally agree with the inclusion criteria and the factors that have been used (specially foveal thickness) to design the screening algorithm (as I explained in previous section) 2.Additionally, the designed application has to be tested on a bigger group of diabetic patient in general population to avoid any bias (such as Hawthorne effect, etc …) associated to small group of patients who are already referred to a specialty clinic. 3.The authors may also be able to provide independent clinical data (retina specialist exam) to confirm that the patients who were detected by the application and marked as DRDME, actually have the disease. In another words, what is the false negative, false positive, positive and negative predictive value of the algorithm?
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "A predictive screening tool to detect diabetic retinopathy or macular edema in primary health care: construction, validation and implementation on a mobile application (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1404v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Nicholas Farber ·
Sep 16, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Article has met these basic reporting standards.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The study states using the application in the primary health care setting, however it was validated in the setting of patients already referred to the ophthalmologist. These patients were therefore already suspicious and could lead to a selection bias for the validation of this tool. The study also is essentially focused on finding advanced disease. It does not stratify from the original general medicine clinic those patients at risk for developing severe disease and potentially changing there course or referring to the ophthalmologist earlier. Macular edema and retinopathy respond best when treated early as chronic edema may not improve despite therapy. Therefore the app may get the patients to the ophthalmologist after it is too late.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
A well-known metric for risk of retinopathy and edema is duration of disease from time of diagnosis. This should be considered as even diabetic patients under good/fair control (possibly A1c better than 8.0) can experience edema, retinopathy, or both over time.
Comments for the author
Overall a well-written study. Its utility in this geographical setting may be applicable but it is unclear how this would translate to a different referral criteria model.In a geographical area that may have too many or too few referrals to the ophthalmologist for diabetic disease evaluation this tool could help streamline the thought process. However are patient’s with modifiable disease getting access early enough? The authors are able to validate their findings in this setting, however, and would provide benefit to the patients, doctors, and health system. Cite this review as
Farber N ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "A predictive screening tool to detect diabetic retinopathy or macular edema in primary health care: construction, validation and implementation on a mobile application (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1404v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 31, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
