Review History for TLR4 Asp299Gly (rs4986790) polymorphism and coronary artery disease: a meta-analysis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History TLR4 Asp299Gly (rs4986790) polymorphism and coronary artery disease: a meta-analysis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 31st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 20th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on October 27th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 29th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mandeep Mehra
·
Oct 29, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
What we meant by "nested power" was to include a comment regarding whether the individual studies included in the analysis themselves had sufficient power to answer the questions posed. You may wish to add a statement to that effect in the galley state but I do not feel strongly about this.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 27, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mandeep Mehra
·
Sep 20, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The report requires close attention to editing by an expert English native speaker. Also the additional analysis breakdown proposed by a reviewer should be performed. Areas where the data is acquired from cohorts without nested power should be stated as such.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 12, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is present well with good structure.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Well performed meta-analysis following mostly the protocol of most previous meta-analyses.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings have very little novelty value but settling the matter of false positive reporting on the polymorphims of TLR4 gene associating with CAD is commendable.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The meta-analysis by Chen et al. deals with the possible effects of TLR4 gene polymorphism. The main result is, that while few studies published ten years ago indicated that Asp299Gly polymorphism could be associated with the risk of CAD, a meta-analysis of all studies conducted since then shows no significant association. Publishing negative results is commendable although it is has already become evident on a general level that most results of genetic association studies are not replicable. I have very little to add to this report. It is mostly well written but could use some revision for improving the language. Please present present currently used rs-number of the Asp299Gly polymorphism in the Title and Abstract. If possible, some of the result could be presented in supplementary material. For example the part of possible modulating effect of statin treatment could be transferred to supplements as well as the section dealing with “Association between Asp299Gly and the number of stenosed coronary arteries”. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "TLR4 Asp299Gly (rs4986790) polymorphism and coronary artery disease: a meta-analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1412v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 20, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Meta-analysis is correctly conducted and litterature is consistent. Minor revisions are required : -Language: grammar and spelling should be revised -It should better compare : 1-vessel+2-vessel vs. 3-vessel , it may give more significant result than (1-vessel+2-vessel+3-vessel vs. 3-vessel. -Conclusion about incidence of cardiovascular events according to TLR4 genotype and statin treatment is underpowered because only three studies were included (indicate in discussion)
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Meta-analysis correctly conducted
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Although results are negative, they are valid.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
no comment Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "TLR4 Asp299Gly (rs4986790) polymorphism and coronary artery disease: a meta-analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1412v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 31, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
