Review History for Swarm v2: highly-scalable and high-resolution amplicon clustering [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Swarm v2: highly-scalable and high-resolution amplicon clustering To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 4th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 24th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on October 26th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 31st, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Gilles van Wezel
·
Oct 31, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The changes that have been made appropriately address the queries from the referees.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 26, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Gilles van Wezel
·
Aug 24, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As you will see, both referees are supportive of the work. However, they also have a number of good points for your consideration. Referee #1 notes that better and biologically relevant comparison between swarm and uclust would be useful for the reader. The reviewers also note several other points that will help to improve your manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 19, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I wonder that whether fastidious option can only be applied when d=1, or it’s also available when d=1. If I understand correctly, can we subsume a low abundance OTU into one OTU when the local abundance threshold between the low abundance OTU and the farthest layer is not greater than 2d, since the max value of local abundance threshold from both sides to the virtual linking amplicon is 1d. It is mentioned in the result that fastidious can reduce the total number of OTU, but I wonder if there is any means we can tell those OTUs which has been subsumed and the high abundance OTU are under the same taxon. I don’t know if the OTU reduction would lead to some information loss in those rare species, which might be concerned in research. I am interested to see the results of the computational time, memory usage and the total number of OTUs when the breaking phase option is applied. I wonder if the seed choosing and the amplicon input and clustering order would impact on the final results.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This paper describes some improvements for Swarm, a clustering program which does not influence by the input order or arbitrary global clustering thresholds. There are two major improvements mentioned. By improving the algorithm, computational time is greatly reduced. And settled the under-grouping by postulating the virtual linking amplicons. Moreover, the program had been intergraded written in C++. Users can export the sequences in fasta format, when d, local clustering thresholds, =0. The internal structure of OTUs can be visualized in two-dimension plot. Single linkage + break is a smart idea for clustering, but we do have some concerns about the original algorithm: using the number of differing bases (d=1 means one base difference) is also arbitrary like using distance threshold (not to mention that 97% is at least roughly corresponding to species level); sequences in a single linkage OTU are not affected by the seed chosen and clustering sequence, but the structure of the single linkage OTU will be affected by them (how these sequences are connected) and hence affecting the break process. From figure 2 and 3, we do see that some sequences can be linked into a single OTU even if the distance is relatively high between them (the same problem as single linakge clustering), can the author give a summary about the OTU size (for example, the average/highest distance between sequences and their centroid) for single linkage (or swarm without break), swarm (with break) and uclust so that we can understand how break can improve based on single linkage and not too stringent like uclust? Nevertheless, since this study is a refinement based on older software, we do not argue that the authors have to answer these. Regarding this study, we are not sure why using different sized data to compare swarm and uclust, even when the speed is clearly much faster using swarm than using uclust; and how about giving some biological comparison between swarm and uclust using, for example, alpha and beta diversity so that the advantage is clearer rather than just theoretically better. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Swarm v2: highly-scalable and high-resolution amplicon clustering (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1420v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Mattias de Hollander ·
Aug 24, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
In the result section they show that they are able to analyse the EMP dataset in a reasonable time on a standard server. It would be nice to add a comparison with SortMeRNA scince that is the default algorithm in Qiita, the storage and analysis platform for EMP. To illustrate the effect of under-grouping with the fastidious option they use a 18S dataset. I think this section can be rephrased so that the main message, Swarm v2 reduces both over- and under-grouping, becomes more clear. For example, the results of the first and second version of Swarm can be compared. In the Swarm v1 paper a comparison with Usearch using a mock dataset is performed. A similar analysis could be useful here. Interesting to know is how the total numbers of OTUs differ for Swarm v2 and the cluster_smallmem / cluster_otus algorithms in Usearch on a mock dataset.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors first introduce the general concept of amplicon clustering applied in Swarm and how it differentiates from other clustering algorithms. Secondly they make clear that they made several improvements to the software. They clearly state why and how they changed the algorithm to scale linearly so it can handle large datasets. Also they introduced a new option (fastidious) to prevent the formation of low abundant OTUs. The procedure to dereplicate and hash the sequences as described in the supplementary html file is different from the documentation on Github. The latter could be updated where an example using VSEARCH is given together with the Python hashing script. This script needs to be added to the Github repository. The Swarm command in the Supplementary html file is missing the '-z' flag so that it accepts the output from VSEARCH which contains abundance information in usearch style. Furthermore Swarm could be improved by making it easier to produce a OTU table with counts for multiple samples, or even have this formatted in BIOM format. Currently there is an example awk script on the wiki (https://github.com/torognes/swarm/wiki/Working%20with%20several%20samples#produce-a-contingency-table-for-otus) which is not present in the scripts folder in the repository. This scripts needs to be updated as well since it does not work with abundance annotation in usearch style. Cite this review as
de Hollander M ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Swarm v2: highly-scalable and high-resolution amplicon clustering (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1420v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 4, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
