Review History for Prediction of cancer cell sensitivity to natural products based on genomic and chemical properties [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Prediction of cancer cell sensitivity to natural products based on genomic and chemical properties To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 23rd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 12th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on October 6th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 2nd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Frank Emmert-Streib
·
Nov 2, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All comments have been addressed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 6, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Frank Emmert-Streib
·
Aug 12, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both reviewers raise some important questions. Please prepare a point-by-point discussion and revise your paper correspondingly.
label_author_1
David Covell ·
Aug 5, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors report their efforts to construct a model that predicts drugs sensitivity using gene expressions and chemical descriptors. It is my understanding that their analysis attempts to build a model of drug sensitivity using a training set of natural products (N=13), for 15 tumor cells that have gene expressions in the GDSC dataset and sensitivity measures to their set of natural products. The test set for this model is derived for 4 natural products, with the addition of curcumin and resveratrol. Apparently the intersection of their data, which is not clearly described, with the GDSC dataset yields these small numbers of cases (17 of their nautial products for 15 tumor cells). Restricting their analysis of only natural products severly will weaken claims that their approach is generally extendable to other cases. Once the reader understands this limitation, their conclusions must can be considered in this light. I would recommend that the authors strongly emphasize this limitation when proposing its extension to the broader area of non-narutal product drug sensitivity.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
As noted above, the experimental design is narrowly focused on a small number of tumor cells and their drug sensitivity. Since their results are presented only within this set of data, the readers cannot assess the power of their analysis. In this regard, the opportunity to compare these results to responses in the remaining over 600 tumor cells, particularly with respect to gene responses. It in not clear whether this small set of gene responses is unique to the GDSC dataset. Gene clustering, as they have done with IC50's would provide some indication whether the 468 reporter genes is truely unique to these 15 tumor cell types. The application of predictive models using, RF, SVM, J48 and RoF would be expected to yield relatively high measures of accuracy. Here they are using 468 genes expressions and ~1000 chemical descriptors to predict IC50 values of 13 tumor cells. Since standard t-tests were used to select these measures amongst all possibe measures (i.e. 12k gene expressions and numerous chemocal descriptors), one would have expected accuracies higher than ~75%.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
From the context of their limited samping, their results are valid. Using ROCs across 4 different methods should not be widely different. All of these methods have some shared similarities in their calculations.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I believe your manuscript can be strengthened by inclusion of results that address the generality of this approach when applied to other compounds. Alternatively, the authors can restrict their claims only to this set of natural products. Cite this review as
Covell D ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Prediction of cancer cell sensitivity to natural products based on genomic and chemical properties (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1425v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 12, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Zhenyu Yue and coworkers aim to develop a machine learning method to predict natural products responses against a panel of cancer cell lines based on both the gene expression and the chemical properties. This is an interesting work. However, these models are not fully verified by experiments. They would be better if minor modifications can be made. There is an anticancer herbs database (CancerHSP, http://lsp.nwsuaf.edu.cn/CancerHSP.php ) where the authors can find data to verify the models. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Prediction of cancer cell sensitivity to natural products based on genomic and chemical properties (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1425v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 23, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
