Review History for Lipopolysaccharide induces a downregulation of adiponectin receptors in-vitro and in-vivo [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Lipopolysaccharide induces a downregulation of adiponectin receptors in-vitro and in-vivo To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 25th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 3rd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on November 2nd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 2nd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Fulvio D'Acquisto
·
Nov 2, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All the points raised by the reviewers have been satisfactorily addressed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 2, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Fulvio D'Acquisto
·
Aug 3, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I wonder if you could address some of the concerns of reviewer 2. It seems to me that the suggestions given would greatly increase the visibility and impact of the study.
label_author_1
Giamila Fantuzzi ·
Jul 28, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
All figure legends should be corrected to represent only the incubation time shown in the actual figure ( separate 4 and 24 h). Table 1 is really hard to decipher. A more standard presentation would probably help. Also, the legend needs to report the exact reference group that was used for calculations of DD ct.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
See below regarding power analysis.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The investigators may want to include an explanation of how they determined group size and number of replications for their experiments. Support of those parameter are by power analysis would highly increase statistical robustness of the findings.
Cite this review as
Fantuzzi G ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Lipopolysaccharide induces a downregulation of adiponectin receptors in-vitro and in-vivo (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1428v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 3, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper adds interesting information to the current knowledge of LPS regulation of adiponectin and its receptors. However, most of the results reported are confirmatory of previous published observations and this should be of interest for PeerJ readers. However, There are certain flaws that should amended. I would like to suggest some points that I hope authors will take into consideration. The introduction is poor, as well discussion. The role of adiponectin in response to inflammatory stimuli is poorly discussed , This reviewer suggests to introduce and discuss on the both the roles of adiponectin in inflammatory response. To this regard, a number of good reviews are suggested to be cited: Robinson et al. Critical Care 2011, 15:221; Drug Discov Today. 2014 Mar;19(3):241-58. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2008 Feb;121(2):326-30. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2014 Jan;114(1):97-102.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experiments carried on in cultured cell lines should be mandatory reproduced in mouse primary cultures of adipocytes and miocytes. Most of the results obtained by authors should be discussed considering those reported in Endocr J 61:891-900. Other minor points The first paragraph of discussion (line 169) should be deleted /changed. The statement is not correct. 3T3-L1 is a cell line (not isolated mouse cells) . Please, correct along the ms Primary adipocytes culture are isolated cells.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
One big limitation is the lack of determination of circulating adiponectin in the animal model and the lack of results in murine primary cells. . These aspects should be mandatory added to give the present findings much more strength.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
no comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Lipopolysaccharide induces a downregulation of adiponectin receptors in-vitro and in-vivo (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1428v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 25, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
