Review History for Biofouling of inlet pipes affects water quality in running seawater aquaria and compromises sponge cell proliferation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Biofouling of inlet pipes affects water quality in running seawater aquaria and compromises sponge cell proliferation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 10th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 8th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on November 2nd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 3rd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Nov 3, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revisions were appropriate. Thank you for giving us the possibility of considering your work.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 2, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Oct 8, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please, consider all the suggestion in the revised version of your manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 25, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript by Brittany et al., describes the impact of biofouling in inlet pipes of running seawater aquaria on the water quality and the potential implication for sponge cell proliferation during experiments performed in the connected aquaria. The idea of the study arose due to a large discrepancy of observed sponge cell proliferation within the same sponge species, the same seawater aquaria system and methodology, but separated by 5 to 7 years. The conclusion of the paper is that biofouling in the seawater inlet pipes alters the water quality, i.e., bacterial cell numbers and nutrient concentrations, which potentially affects the physiology of organisms kept in the seawater aquaria - in this case the sponge species Halisarca caerulea. Overall, the basic reporting of the study is good, but because of the more coincidentally nature of the experiment, the general conclusion drawn in this study is still somehow hampered by its limited design. See below.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The reason for this study is based on an accidentally finding and this what drives science forward. However, in this case this also limits the present experimental design. A replication of the experiment was not possible, since only one water inlet pipe was available. Hence, I wonder why the authors only tested the potential effect of the renewal of the water pipe on one single sponge species (n=3)? They later state that also positive effects due to biofouling altered water quality can theoretically occur. Not testing a second sponge species (at least) or another benthic filter feeder (e.g., coral or ascidian) is a missed chance. Moreover, not surveying the change in microbial composition genetically was surely beyond the scope of this study, but would be an interesting addition for future studies. L 218-224 - Statistical analysis - Personally, I would like to see more background information about the used models and software. This section is to unclear in its current state. Further questions: Line 149-151 - What are the reasons to acclimatize the sponges at first for a minimum of 2 weeks, but then repeat the experiment after an acclimatization of just 1 week?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
If the authors chose to present the significant decrease of bacterial abundance with the p value threshold of '<0.01' I wonder why they then chose '<0.05' instead of presenting the actual values. The visible bacterial and nutrient differences presented in Fig. 2 & 3 and Table 1 between the old and new pipe are convincing enough for the overall conclusion of the present experiment, even with low, but still significant p values. Personally, I like to see the real p values, especially if they are between 0.05 and 0.001. L302-315 - The authors discuss the theoretical link between the exchange of the inlet pipe and the subsequent effect on water quality (bacterial abundance and nutrient concentration) on the sponge cell proliferation. The drawn conclusion is convincing, however, I'm missing at least one alternative explanation for the observed results. The authors suggest that further investigations are necessary and this would be a good starting point for a new working hypothesis.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
L235 - This should be Fig. 3A, B L296-298 - Please, elaborate how the pump could and its impellor force lead to lower bacterial abundances. Do the authors imply that the impellor force destroys microbial cells? Since, the cited paper by Luckett et al. 1996 does not specifically describe this hypothesis (as far as I know) I would appreciate a more detailed explanation at this point. L327-329 - While the authors write in L313 to 315 that the direct relationship between nutrient concentration and cell proliferation needs further investigation, the final conclusion sounds less carefully, which is slightly contradicting. Maybe this should be rephrased in a more cautious way. However, it is indeed very important to point out that many seawater aquarium experiments could be influenced by unrecognized effects of biofouling. Therefore, this study is overall an important contribution to its field. Figures I recommend to add another figure if possible. Since the biofouling of the inlet pipe is the main focus of this study, I would like to see close-up pictures of the observed biofouling within the inlet pipe in question. This could help the reader to better visualize the probably drastic change of the first 12 meters within the pipe. The resolution of Fig. 2 is lower in comparison to Fig. 3 - please change the resolution in Fig. 2. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Biofouling of inlet pipes affects water quality in running seawater aquaria and compromises sponge cell proliferation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1430v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 7, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript presents experimental results of the investigation of the physiological consequences of see-water quality changes on model organisms kept in the aquaria system. In particular it was investigated the influence of the presence and absence of the biofouling community on the functioning of the filter-feeding sponge Halisarca caerulea, by determining its choanocyte proliferation rates. The authors showed, that the new inlet pipe was free from biofouling organisms, which subsequently caused both bacterial abundance and concentrations of nitrate, nitrite, and ammonium to approach ambient reef water conditions. It was also documented a clear 34% increase in the proliferation rate of choanocytes in H. caerulea following the replacement of new inlet pipe. I think this manuscript is worth publishing in PeerJ as a Basic Reporting. The manuscript is well written: in general it is clear and the quality of the English is generally good. It is sufficiently illustrated. This paper includes new observations and thereby makes a contribution to our knowledge of the physiology and nutrition of sponges. The article will be of interest to professionals working with problems of biofouling. However, the main audience is workers using flow tanks for experiments in different biological thematic. All sections of the manuscript satisfy expected criteria. I recommend that it should be accepted for publication after amendment as itemized below.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
In general this section contain all information relevant to repeat the study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
he data are robust, statistically sound, and controlled.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Manuscript n° 6646 for PeerJ entitled “Biofouling of inlet pipes affects water quality in running seawater aquaria: A case study of sponge cell proliferation“ By : Brittany E Alexander, Benjamin Mueller, Mark JA Vermeij, Harm G van der Geest, Jasper M de Goeij This manuscript presents experimental results of the investigation of the physiological consequences of see-water quality changes on model organisms kept in the aquaria system. In particular it was investigated the influence of the presence and absence of the biofouling community on the functioning of the filter-feeding sponge Halisarca caerulea, by determining its choanocyte proliferation rates. The authors showed, that the new inlet pipe was free from biofouling organisms, which subsequently caused both bacterial abundance and concentrations of nitrate, nitrite, and ammonium to approach ambient reef water conditions. It was also documented a clear 34% increase in the proliferation rate of choanocytes in H. caerulea following the replacement of new inlet pipe. I think this manuscript is worth publishing in PeerJ as a Basic Reporting. The manuscript is well written: in general it is clear and the quality of the English is generally good. It is sufficiently illustrated. This paper includes new observations and thereby makes a contribution to our knowledge of the physiology and nutrition of sponges. The article will be of interest to professionals working with problems of biofouling. However, the main audience is workers using flow tanks for experiments in different biological thematic. All sections of the manuscript satisfy expected criteria. I recommend that it should be accepted for publication after amendment as itemized below. Specific comments: Introduction The introduction contains the pertinent literature on the subject. Lines 76-78. You write: “We hypothesized the possible cause of this altered cell proliferation to be a suboptimal food supply to the aquaria during the latter fieldwork period”. My question is, if you tested a correlation of this altered cell proliferation with different stages of reproductive cycle in H. caerulea? Do you know the reproductive cycle and reproductive effort of your model sponge? For example, in Halisarca dujardini during their reproduction the reproductive effort (total volume of reproductive element / volume of parental mesohyl) could be up to 70% (Ereskovsky, 2000). Materials and Methods In general this section contain all information relevant to repeat the study. Sponge collection section It is not clear did you use the pieces from the same sponge individuals for experiments with old and new pipes? Or there were from different individuals? Water sample collection section Did you analyze water samples in situ i.e. from 10 m water depth at the reef slope on March 22, 2013 and on April 9, 2013? If it was any differences of microbes and inorganic components concentration between these dates? Results Line 230: Change Fig. 2A,B with Fig. 3 A,B. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Biofouling of inlet pipes affects water quality in running seawater aquaria and compromises sponge cell proliferation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1430v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 10, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
