Review History for Comparative analyses of olfactory systems in terrestrial crabs (Brachyura): evidence for aerial olfaction? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Comparative analyses of olfactory systems in terrestrial crabs (Brachyura): evidence for aerial olfaction? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 12th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 12th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on October 26th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 3rd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Darren Williams
·
Nov 3, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All the changes requested have been made. This is a very nice piece of work on a fascinating topic.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 26, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Darren Williams
·
Oct 12, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This is a very, very nice piece of work on a fascinating topic. The presentation and figures are excellent. The two reviewers make useful suggestions to change the text. The observation of sexually dimorphic neuropilar features is interesting but should be couched, as there is a small sample size. If the typos are corrected I would be very happy for this to be accepted.
label_author_1
Zen Faulkes ·
Sep 24, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The PDF does not include any indications of what raw data will be available. There are no other reporting issues.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This paper meets all standards for experimental design.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data are fine and generally well-presented. As noted above, the raw data is not available for review in the PDF, but I have no major concerns that I think need to be addressed by inspecting the raw data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
There are some minor suggestions for corrections of typos and minor wording changes. The only more substantive issue is that I would appreciate some indication of why Figure 17 (with sections from different species paired together) is organized as it is. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Faulkes Z ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Comparative analyses of olfactory systems in terrestrial crabs (Brachyura): evidence for aerial olfaction? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1433v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Elizabeth Marin ·
Sep 30, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is written in an appropriate format in standard English. I am attaching a pdf of the Word document with tracked changes to suggest minor copyedits for clarity, including to figure/table legends (my software did not permit annotation of the original pdf). Figures are nicely presented. Sufficient background information has been provided to contextualize the work. I did not see any details in the article regarding plans for the deposition of raw data.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research appears to be original and conducted to a high technical standard, with sufficiently detailed methods to be reproducible.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Although the authors examined four species with varying degrees of terrestriality, it was not clear to me whether any of the presumed adaptations correlated with the degree of terrestriality, which would be a very interesting finding. If it was only the case that terrestrial species were more similar to each other than to the aquatic species, that could be stated more clearly in the text. One of the two major findings (sexual dimorphism of the olfactory glomeruli in U. tangeri) is based on a single female individual. Although the authors do use weaker language ("suggest") in recognition of this limitation in the main text (but not the abstract), an additional sample should be analyzed to strengthen this conclusion if possible. Again, I did not see any details in the article regarding plans for the deposition of raw data.
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Marin E ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Comparative analyses of olfactory systems in terrestrial crabs (Brachyura): evidence for aerial olfaction? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1433v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 12, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
