Review History for ABT-737, a small molecule Bcl-2/Bcl-xL antagonist, increases antimitotic-mediated apoptosis in human prostate cancer cells [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History ABT-737, a small molecule Bcl-2/Bcl-xL antagonist, increases antimitotic-mediated apoptosis in human prostate cancer cells To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 26th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 19th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on August 6th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 6th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Santosh Patnaik
·
Aug 6, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The issues raised in the last round of review have bee adequately addressed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 6, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Santosh Patnaik
·
Jul 19, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript that you submitted is prepared very well, with a clear, succinct and consistently styled presentation, appropriate discourse, details and references, and suitably composed figures. Of the three reviewers, only one has suggested a few changes, all of which are minor. The comment about mentioning the phenomenon of caspase-independent cytotoxic effect of docetaxel on prostate cancer cells is relatively important and should be addressed. Regarding the comments asking whether Coomassie stain was used on protein blots or gels, and whether the LNCaP and PC3 cells that were used in the study were parental or derived, please clarify appropriately in the manuscript as other readers of the publication may have the same questions. You can choose to address the remaining comments of the reviewer at your discretion.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 18, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The majority of the manuscript is coherent, simplistic and intriguing. However, the 4th paragraph of the introduction could use a little more clarification and purpose. Lines 317-320 would fit well into this paragraph. It needs to be mentioned in the introduction or Discussion section that docetaxel induced prostate cancer death involves concomintant activation of both caspase- and lysosome-dependent pathways (Mediavilla-Varela M. et al., Mol. Cancer. 2009)
Experimental design
label_ed_1
It is stated that ABT-737 can sensitize androgen-dependent LNCAP and PC-3 cells to docetaxel and 1198. Are both these cell lines docetaxel-resistant versions of the parental cells or are they docetaxel sensitive LNCAP and PC-3 cells? Materials and Methods- ATCC recommends growing PC-3 cells in medium with 10% FBS. If selection of a loading control is difficult, it is better to use Ponceaus staining of the membrane rather than Coomassie blue staining of the gel because it is the same membrane and is ideal for monitoring transfer. However, some researchers are using a new technique of protein staining with Coomassie that can be used on the membrane after immunodetection (Welinder and Ekblad, J. Proteome Res. 2011). Please clarify if you stained the gel or membrane.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I would suggest uniformity in the labeling of figures such as Figures 1A and 1B. I would choose between LN or L for LNCaP and DU or D for DU145. Also, I would not use PC in labeling for PC3 cells as PC has been consistently used in the rest of the paper as an acronym for prostate cancer. I would suggest identifying prostate cancer as PCa to avoid this confusion. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "ABT-737, a small molecule Bcl-2/Bcl-xL antagonist, increases antimitotic-mediated apoptosis in human prostate cancer cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.144v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 16, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This was actually very well done; the results of this manuscript appear to be the collaborative work of several different projects, which, as described in the methods section of this paper, appear to be technically sound.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results of the author's experiments is clearly conveyed in the context of what is known in the general literature. Their final conclusions appear to be supported by their findings in the results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This was an interesting investigation into some of the biologic mechanisms for chemotherapeutic resistance in the setting of Castration resistant prostate cancer with well-designed experiments to quantify the relative importance of roles played by certain pro/anti-apoptotic proteins. It appears that the scientific methods discussed and conclusions derived from this set of studies were well-designed and appropriate, respectively. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "ABT-737, a small molecule Bcl-2/Bcl-xL antagonist, increases antimitotic-mediated apoptosis in human prostate cancer cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.144v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Jun 29, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article is well written and conforms to the PeerJ policies.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The experimental design is appropriate for the authors to make their conclusions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data is sound albeit not incredibly novel or surprising. I reviewed this manuscript for a different journal and that was the main conclusion of the reviews. Thus if impact is not a factor in the decision, I believe this is an acceptable paper.
Comments for the author
This is an interesting finding. The experiments are well-performed, however the findings and conclusions are not terribly surprising. So the study is not incredibly novel, but it is solid and appropriate. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #3 of "ABT-737, a small molecule Bcl-2/Bcl-xL antagonist, increases antimitotic-mediated apoptosis in human prostate cancer cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.144v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 26, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
