Review History for Baseline seabed habitat and biotope mapping for a proposed marine reserve [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Baseline seabed habitat and biotope mapping for a proposed marine reserve To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 23rd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 25th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on October 19th, 2015 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 5th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Maria Dornelas
·
Nov 5, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All comments raised in the previous review round have been addressed in the revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 2, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Overall the manuscript is well written and the much needed clarification has been added. Minor comments: Line 59 (and thereafter mentioned), should the code for biotope Pon.Bry be Por.Bry for Porifera? Line 174, replace ‘at’ with ‘to sample each location’. Line 221, sub tidal should be one work Line 235 change ‘colouration’ to ‘coloration’ to be consistent with American spelling used in the manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
All comments have been addressed and now the methods are adequately described to allow repeatability of the work and make use of pre-existing data.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results are valid and are well illustrated with the figures and data provided.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript is well written, with clarification throughout the manuscript. The applied nature of the work provides maps which can be used for conservation purposes. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Baseline seabed habitat and biotope mapping for a proposed marine reserve (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1446v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 19, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Maria Dornelas
·
Aug 25, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both reviewers praise the quality of this manuscript but highlight areas where it requires clarification. The methods need to be described with sufficient detail so that the validity of the results can be assessed, and, particularly in a paper like this one, so that the methods can be repeated elsewhere.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 16, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall the English is of a good standard, in places the manuscript lacks clarity and this needs to be addressed (specific comments are attached to the manuscript). Figure 2 legend: need to add that the 85 sampling sites are from cruise 3. The figures require labeling to make them easier to interpret: Figure 3: Label clusters on dendrogram. Need to explain what the red dashed lines are. Figure 4:Label clusters on dendrogram Figure 5: Label clusters on nMDS plot Figure 6: Add some geographic information (latitude/longitude) Figure 7: No image of biotope 4 Figure 8: Images are no the same size and not all are lined up Substrate and taxa file require better labeling of rows
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The methods are not described with sufficient information that would allow the work to be reproduced. The methods lack detail. For example it is unclear how the samples were collected along a station - where they drift transects (station) with samples taken along them (camera on the seabed for 5 minutes)? If this is the case it needs to be explained much better. Where the cameras calibrated for area to allow comparison between equipment. This detail is lacking from the methods. How was substrate grain size measured? i.e were the cameras calibrated? Need more detail of the statistical methods employed: - Why was Jaccard’s coefficient used? - Need to specify that clusters were grouped by species (variables) and not samples
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
In the raw data file there are 66 samples, but it unclear what these represents as there is no reference to this in the manuscript. It's difficult to tell if the data are robust as it's unclear how the data were analysed - a lot more details are needed: - How the stations were samples, what constitutes a sample? - Where non-colonial species enumerated? The shortcoming of the data should be discussed: the fact that the 3rd cruise includes data from the trawling period - what implication could this have on the data?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The production of the map for the study area is a very useful output, but improvements of the methods and results are needed. While this map is useful you need to be more explicit in the fact that data during trawling periods are used within the analysis. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Baseline seabed habitat and biotope mapping for a proposed marine reserve (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1446v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 24, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This work about seabed mapping in a proposed MPA in NZ is a piece of applied research that is important for its applicability in marine biodiversity conservation and for marine spatial planning purposes. The paper is very well written. There are some minor issues: L166: Sentence about substrate needs a citation; L167: I would use "rocks/sediments" instead of "rocks"; Figures: Letters corresponding to each assemblage (A, B, C and D) inserted in the figures 4 and 5 would be of help (Optional).
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Although the paper is very well written there are several issues that should be addressed. The first one is the confident assessment. This assessment could be done in several ways but I suggest the authors to follow the one presented by the MESH project (http://www.emodnet-seabedhabitats.eu/default.aspx?page=1635) which is feasible for this case. Another issue is the need to better clarify how the taxonomic identification was validated, ie, taking that so many taxonomic groups were observed and only based on underwater images how did the authors handled this huge, difficult and complex work? Furthermore, it seemed that the identification work and the structure of the paper was somehow "sponge" biased. For instance, only sponge species are discriminated in abstract even there are other important species (e.g., black coral and endemic gorgonians?). There is a subchapter in the discussion only dedicated to sponges, rather than the biotopes, and that is not entirely justified (some parts belong to the results section). Concerning the Drop Down Video (DDV) there are some information that need to be mentioned: image definition, light system, area coverage, positioning and calibration.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The results would benefit from a global quantification by species groups clearly showing the species composition of the study area. Besides, no reference is made to the existence or not of commercial species and that would be of interest in a study like this one. The future MPA could benefit not only the conservation of species and habitats with high conservation value but also the fisheries outside the MPA by spillover effect, for instance. The use of presence-only species data for the clustering analyses seemed limited and favouring less abundant species and that should be convincingly justified. Another important aspect is that although is mentioned in the methods section, the analysis to be made in the PRIMER (SIMPROF) is not presented in the results section. In the discussion, the ecological features that justify the classifying of the study area as a MPA, based on the present study, are not clearly presented.
Comments for the author
To conclude, I think that in general this is a valid work that deserves to be published, but only after major improvements. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Baseline seabed habitat and biotope mapping for a proposed marine reserve (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1446v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 23, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
