Review History for Temporal comparison and predictors of fish species abundance and richness on undisturbed coral reef patches [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Temporal comparison and predictors of fish species abundance and richness on undisturbed coral reef patches To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 5th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 29th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on November 3rd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 10th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Nov 10, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have improved the revised manuscript according to the reviewer's suggestions.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 3, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Aug 29, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please, consider all the suggestions in the revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 22, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1. Line 34. Should be ‘intensity’ not ‘intensify’ 2. Is there a particular reason most (but not all) of the Family names are in italics?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1. The introduction of the manuscript expresses an aim to better understand coral reef community responses to disturbances (natural/anthropogenic) by gaining a better understanding of changes to the reef community on relatively undisturbed reefs. I believe the authors could have achieved the aims of their paper much more informatively if they’d used their assemblage-level data. Currently, the very simple metrics they use (live coral cover, fish abundance, fish species richness) give only a very basic and superficial assessment of their study site.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
1. A well-executed series of surveys of a relatively undisturbed area of coral reefs, supporting the general consensus that reef complexity and live coral cover are important to reef fish abundance and species richness.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I have previously reviewed this paper for another journal and am happy to see that several earlier recommendations have been incorporated into this version of the manuscript. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Temporal comparison and predictors of fish species abundance and richness on undisturbed coral reef patches (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1459v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 29, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Well written, no extraneous information. A few relatively minor comments (i) I think you mean ‘tourism intensity’ not ‘tourism intensify’ on line 34 (ii) Lines 46-53 seem to me to overstate the lack of long-term monitoring data from many regions. It’s arguable that the data are not as widely available as they might be, or that there are insufficient well studied and publicized time series, but there are certainly a lot of ongoing efforts, including at many remote locations - by NOAA in the Pacific, by the IRD group and CRIOBE in French Polynesia, and a lot of work in East Africa and the Indian Ocean by McClanahan and colleagues. I am sure there are also many other efforts that I am not so aware of. (iii) I believe I do understand how the models were constructed and run, and how model averaging was done - and I believe the analysis is well done - but I think more information should be added to the methods section to explain the approach so that a reader does not have to glean that from scrutinizing the results. For example, I would recommend being explicit about the R package used and the procedure to run all possible models and then to do the model averaging (in the MuMin package that would presumably be the dredge and model.avg routines). I assume also that all models were included until cumulative model weight was >0.9 [which incidentally seems like a lot of very unlikely models were included, although that is probably fine for model averaging]). However, all that is not entirely clear to me from how the methods are written now. I recommend authors including simplified versions of their analysis scripts in the supplementary materials, but that is not essential. (v) Figures in supplementary materials are very helpful. I think they would be even better if the figures could be generated for untransformed response and predictor values, so that true shape of the relationship between predictors and response variable was clear. There could also be an argument for adding more figures (e.g. to show relationship between richness and cleaner wrasse density) as the shape and slope of the relationships is usually very interesting.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Excellent
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The one thing I quibble with is the statement in several places (line 20, line 168-169) that coral cover or patch reefs remained relatively ‘unchanged’ over the 10 year time period. There is only data from two time points 1997 and 2007, as such we can not know whether there has been change over that time .. we only know that the start and end points are relatively similar.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Temporal comparison and predictors of fish species abundance and richness on undisturbed coral reef patches (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1459v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 5, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
