Review History for Non-inferiority of retrospective data collection for assessing perioperative morbidity [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Non-inferiority of retrospective data collection for assessing perioperative morbidity To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 17th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 25th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on November 5th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 12th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Yong Wang
·
Nov 12, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors made point-by-point revision based on the reviewers. The concerns were largely addressed. The manuscript has been improved accordingly. Now I suggest its acceptance for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 5, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Yong Wang
·
Oct 25, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Based on the reports at hand, I request a major revision for further review. Please respond to the reviewer comments. The main contribution should be highlighted in the new version.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 21, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1.The value or the importance of this manuscript has not been fully elucidated. For example, the author said they tested by three different approaches, which included 1) to assess whether POMS-defined morbidity captured retrospectively or prospectively altered the trajectory of patients becoming free of postoperative morbidity , and 2) to assess whether POMS-defined morbidity on postoperative day 3 captured retrospectively or prospectively was linked with delayed hospital discharge. However, few (or not too much) discussion was related to these in the discussion. Additional discussions on this point might be helpful for proper understanding of the significance of the results. 2. Additional and more careful descriptions must be needed in the figure legend part corresponding to Figure 1 and 2. 3.Additional description of previous study should be needed. For example, in page 12, “However, the Clavien-Dindo system, as with all clinical assessment models, has had various shortcomings highlighted.(Rassweiler et al. 2012).” What shortcoming is Clavien-Dindo system ? Another example, “where POMS-defined morbidity is present in ~75% of patients”, it seems no similar results addressed in current manuscript. 4.I'm not sure, but I'm afraid line colors in figure 2 are wrong.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1. In the method, “Morbidity was recorded by a trained investigator as defined by POMS prospectively on postoperative days 3 and 7. Separately, an independent investigator…” only one investigator evaluated the whole material? How did you control the quality of the whole study? 2.The clinic data, such as the average age, gender and what kind of disease of the 85 patients should be mentioned shortly in the manuscript, or perhaps, authors can show them in the supplementary Materials.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
1.Although the results showed that retrospective compilation of POMS-defined morbidity data from charts, medical and nursing notes was non-inferior to prospective, real-time data collection requiring research or administrative personnel. But in figure 1 and 2, there was a little difference (although no significance statistically) comparing retrospective and prospective modes of data collection, is there any meaning for this difference?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This manuscript describes retrospective data collection from routinely collated hospital data from paper and electronic charts, medical and nursing notes was non-inferior to prospective data collection requiring research staff capturing POMS-defined morbidity in real-time. I think the issue mentioned in this manuscript is very important and their approach is technically sound. Nevertheless, I think there is still room for further improvements of the manuscript. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Non-inferiority of retrospective data collection for assessing perioperative morbidity (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1466v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 25, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this paper, the authors compared retrospective data collection with prospective data collection to predict postoperative morbidity. And they have shown that the method of retrospective data collection was non-inferior to prospective data collection when analyzing the real data.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1) Figure 1 and 2 show the results for patients free of POMS-defined morbidity comparing retrospective and prospective models of data collection. In the introduction, authors mentioned the real time data collection. How about the real time data collection? It would be better if comparing these three methods of data collection. 2) In the introduction, authors mentioned that they assessed whether POMS-defined morbidity captured retrospectively or prospectively at postoperative day 3 was linked with delayed hospital discharge. But in results section, there are no comparisons of two models. Please add the related results.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this paper, the authors compared retrospective data collection with prospective data collection to predict postoperative morbidity. And they have shown that the method of retrospective data collection was non-inferior to prospective data collection when analyzing the real data. Some revisions are needed as follows: 1) Figure 1 and 2 show the results for patients free of POMS-defined morbidity comparing retrospective and prospective models of data collection. In the introduction, authors mentioned the real time data collection. How about the real time data collection? It would be better if comparing these three methods of data collection. 2) In the introduction, authors mentioned that they assessed whether POMS-defined morbidity captured retrospectively or prospectively at postoperative day 3 was linked with delayed hospital discharge. But in results section, there are no comparisons of two models. Please add the related results. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Non-inferiority of retrospective data collection for assessing perioperative morbidity (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1466v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 17, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
