Review History for Metagenomic and satellite analyses of red snow in the Russian Arctic [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Metagenomic and satellite analyses of red snow in the Russian Arctic To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 3rd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 6th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on November 18th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 19th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Kimberly Bishop-Lilly
·
Nov 19, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing each of the comments that were raised by myself and the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 18, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Kimberly Bishop-Lilly
·
Oct 6, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address all the reviewers' comments, including making a note in the text that MG-RAST id numbers are provided as accession numbers in supplementary table 2 for the datasets described. Additionally, please address the following: 1. Line 11, should be 'lower' not 'lowers' 2. Line 111, please clarify if 50% was covered with algae or red algae 3. Line 143, should be 'supported' not 'support 4. Line 188, insert 'the' as so '..land masses in the world..' 5. Please take a careful look at the labels of supplementary figure 5. There should be a space between 'red' and 'snow' in the color key. The y-axis should probably say 'Proportion of reads assigned to Chlorophyta.' The figure legend line 2 should say 'The y-axis..' rather than 'They y-axis..'
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 28, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript by Hisakawa et al analysed the microbial communities mainly algae inhabiting the arctic snow using metagenomic and satellite approaches. Authors aim that albedo is reduced due to inhabitation of microbes on snow/ice. The MS provides a good comparison with other regions. Some points which needs to be edited are: 1. In line, 90 FJL is not described (should be abbreviated in the beginning). 2. Throughout the text, the white snow is represented sometimes as 'snow' and sometimes as 'white snow'. It should be consistent. 3. Introduction mainly talks about C.nivalis, more background information about the approaches used in the study and their importance would be good.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1. Why sequencing libraries were named the Nansen and Greeley? Are these two different samples from two different sites? Details of site information required. 2. Biological replicates would be appreciated, Are Nansen and Greeley replicates?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The Conclusions section is rather shallow. Certain speculations on the red snow communities include primary producers in contrast to white snow communities dominated by fungi need to be discussed in detail.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Metagenomic and satellite analyses of red snow in the Russian Arctic (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1491v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 3, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
According to the PeerJ Policies, the manuscript should include accession numbers for all the Metagenomic dataset. Accession numbers should be provided for the Greely_1, Greely_2 and Nansen dataset but also the white snows sampled used in the investigation. In the deposit of your data, please indicate the status of the data (filtered or not). As you have used Kegg and M5NR to demonstrate lack or difference between the metagenomic samples - and as Kegg and M5NR are evolving database, it appears that in the future new annotations can change slightly some of your computations - so please, give indications about the database you used (release date, size, number of entries - what do you think is valuable to describe the database you are using)
Experimental design
label_ed_2
You have used Bray-Curtis measure to expose some differences between abundance on Kegg pathway. May I suggest to add an example on how you are using this measure and the size of the set where you are performing the Bray-Curtis measure?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Nice job on a very interesting subject. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Metagenomic and satellite analyses of red snow in the Russian Arctic (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1491v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 3, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
