Review History for The role of 2,4-dihydroxyquinoline (DHQ) in Pseudomonas aeruginosa pathogenicity [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The role of 2,4-dihydroxyquinoline (DHQ) in Pseudomonas aeruginosa pathogenicity To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 1st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 15th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on November 18th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 22nd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Timothy Read
·
Nov 22, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You should consider making the raw data underlying the figures available either through additional supplemental files, or through a post-publication link to uploaded files on figshare or similar resource.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 18, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Timothy Read
·
Sep 15, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both reviewers find this to be an interesting and , in places, innovative manuscript. The main finding, that DHQ is involved in P. aeuruginosa pathogenicity is a novel and significant finding. Reviewer 1 makes good points about the the lack of statistical information in a number of the figures. The number of replications, statistical tests used, degrees of freedom and p-vlaues need to be reported. It should be indicated in the legend whether error bars refer to SE, SD or con intervals. In addition, I advocate not using 'dynamite plots' (see link below) but use instead using strip plots (which show every data point in the experiment) with means and error bars overlayed. http://biostat.mc.vanderbilt.edu/wiki/Main/DynamitePlots
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 14, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The main findings reported in this manuscript are about the role of Pseudomonas aeruginosa quorum sensing quinolone signal DHQ in pathogenicity. The authors suggest that DHQ which is the product of pqs operon may be responsible for virulence. They also detected elevated levels of DHQ in the sputum of CF patients. Additionally, they provide evidence that DHQ can bind to PqsR and activate the transcription of pqs operon. These studies suggest an important role for quorum sensing molecule DHQ in P. aeruginosa pathogenicity. The introduction contains relevant but still mostly general information, and presentation of this study is missing in an appropriate context. Motivation of new studies is not explained.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The procedure description in Materials and Methods is not accurate enough in some parts. For example, on p.6, it is not clear what kind of mutants and GFP-bacteria were used. What is the motivation of using C. elegans model? On p.7-8, the route of infection is not described. Statistical analysis is also missing. Results and figures. Fig. 1. What serve as a control here? How many experiments were performed? Please, provide indication of significant differences (*,**,***) in a graphs. Axis Y: Survival, (%). Fig. 2. Quantification of colonization shown on fluorescence images collected from at least 3 experiments would be great to have in order to reach the conclusions about the differences in colonization. Fig. 3, 4, 5, 8. Statistical analysis is not clear. What is presented here – means, SE or other? How many experiments were performed? Significant difference is not provided. Based solely on the data in Fig. 1 and 2, I am not sure the authors can conclude that DHQ are the primary mediators of the increased virulence of P.aeruginosa. Therefore, I would recommend additional experiment on complementation of virulence of P. aeruginosa with synthetic DHQ.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Statistical analysis is not clear. The Discussion is somehow fragmented and does not interpret the results in light of previous knowledge.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No more comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The role of 2,4-dihydroxyquinoline (DHQ) in Pseudomonas aeruginosa pathogenicity (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1495v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 15, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article meets the PeerJ standards
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No issues with the experimental design. The methods employed are well described and reasonable for addressing the question of what role DHQ plays in Pseudomonas pathogenecity. The C. elegans model was a good fit for this study. Moreover, the use of HPLC for quantification of QS molecules in the culture supernatants and sputum was innovative.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data reported are robust and support the conclusions of the article. Figures provide a strong representation of the different methodological angles taken to evaluate the role of DHQ in P. aeruginosa pathogenesis
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall, this was an interesting study and the conclusions are based on layers of evidence. It provides more insight into the role of the Pseudomonas quinolone signal quorum sensing system in disease. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "The role of 2,4-dihydroxyquinoline (DHQ) in Pseudomonas aeruginosa pathogenicity (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1495v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 1, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
