Review History for Determinants of antiretroviral therapy coverage in Sub-Saharan Africa [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Determinants of antiretroviral therapy coverage in Sub-Saharan Africa To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 29th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 28th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on November 12th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 23rd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dominik Wodarz
·
Nov 23, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for taking into account the input from the reviewers. The paper is now acceptable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 12, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dominik Wodarz
·
Sep 28, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address all of the comments made by the reviewers, then it should be acceptable for publication.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 7, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is very comprehensive and the details of the methods are explained clearly and thoroughly. This clarity makes the paper accessible and pleasing to read. However, sometimes the authors slip into overly explaining minute details of their data – the simple scatter plot of Figure 1 is explained over three paragraphs, describing individually 8 points from the 41-point graph. The authors would benefit from some more brevity in the overly loquacious descriptions in the paper. The authors would benefit from having the manuscript proofed by a native English speaker. Overall the grammar is good, but there is some awkwardness that leads to more difficult reading comprehension. One main example is overuse of 'the' - 'the ARV treatment' is almost always just 'ARV treatment.'
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I have no reservations about the paper being fit to publish in a journal like PeerJ -- the analysis may be of interest and is scientifically and methodologically sound overall. However, one of my major concerns in the paper is that the authors tend to overstep in speculation what is actually supported by the analysis done and the results obtained: 1.In the last paragraph on page 5, the authors should be cautious about stating things like ‘Figure 1 shows there was a strong positive relationship between ART and HIV.’ At this point no statistical analysis has been done, so stating that a relationship is present is a bit premature. It would be safer to say that the figure visually suggests the presence of a relationship, which was confirmed in the statistical analysis below. The same applies to figure 2. Also to figure 5, the matrix scatter plot analysis. 2.In the second paragraph on page 9, the authors state, “In view that the HIV prevalence had a statistically meaningful positive association with the health expenditure, the Sub-Saharan African countries with larger populations living with HIV may want to increase their expenditures for health care.” I think the authors should remove this statement, as it’s quite misleading. No analysis has been done to look into causation, but it seems most logical to assume that the high HIV prevalence is what is driving the association with high health care expenditure – so it doesn’t make much sense to ask countries with high HIV prevalence to raise their health care expenditure further. 3.Also in the second paragraph on page 9, the authors write, “This finding indicates that an increase in the HIV prevalence was followed by an increase in the numbers of medical professionals including nurses.” The authors should be careful here – there is no causation analysis, so they should perhaps substitute ‘This finding suggests’ rather than ‘indicates,’ as no other evidence is given to support the idea that the increase in HIV prevalence lead to an increase in nurses. 4.Similarly, in the second paragraph on page 10, the authors write about the existence of a ‘virtuous circle,’ where spending on healthcare leads to more nurses and midwives, which leads to better healthcare, which leads to more spending on healthcare. I think from the data presented, there’s little evidence of this more complex circle of causation – all the correlation shows is that more healthcare spending is associated with more nurses and midwives. I think it is too far of a causal leap to assume there is anything ‘circular’ about this, as the relationship could easily be quite linear, and either spending more on healthcare could lead to more nurses, or the decision to employ more nurses could lead to more spending on healthcare.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I have some general comments below: 5.Authors give good reasons for sticking to a lower number of more easily definable and measurable elements to include in the model. However, they do not explain why they leave out easily-definable elements that were found to be important in 2 or more of the aforementioned studies, ex: foreign aid levels and number of HIV patients in urban areas. Perhaps the data is simply not available? 6.Please check citation for reference 16 – I cannot locate it from the citation given. 7.The ‘paper organization’ paragraph included as the last paragraph of the introduction is unnecessary. 8.The explanation of the equation for ART coverage and the conversion rates for the GDP and HED are clear and concise. 9.Figure axes need to have the units labelled. In figure 1 – both HIV prevalence and ART coverage should be shown as being percent (%). In Figure 2, the units are much less obvious – is GDP in thousands of dollars? Hundreds of dollars? Just dollars? The authors need to be much more clear with the units in the figures. 10.Also, though the description of the figures in the text body is good, this description should be also present in the figure legends, so that when viewing the figures, a full description of the axes, units, etc, are available very nearby. 11.It seems figures 6-8 should be tables rather than figures. 12.In the first paragraph of the discussion, the authors compare their findings to those of previous papers. They state that references 13, 14, and 15 also found a significant positive relationship between ART and HIV prevalence. However, when they outline the findings of these papers at the beginning of their introduction, they only state that reference 14 found HIV prevalence significantly influenced ART coverage. This easily leads to confusion as the two paragraphs seem to contradict each other. I suggest the authors include everything the previous papers found significant in their introduction to avoid this. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Determinants of antiretroviral therapy coverage in Sub-Saharan Africa (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1496v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 9, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The study deals with an important topic and is relatively well written and clearly explained. 1) The authors give references [7-11] for the effectiveness of ART on survival rate of HIV-infected persons. The Cohen 2011 reference is important, but more recent and relevant references can be given. Please cite: Tanser, Frank, et al. "High coverage of ART associated with decline in risk of HIV acquisition in rural KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa." Science 339.6122 (2013): 966-971. Vandormael, Alain, et al. "Use of antiretroviral therapy in households and risk of HIV acquisition in rural KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, 2004–12: a prospective cohort study." The Lancet Global Health 2.4 (2014): e209-e215. Both these studies specifically explore the role of ART coverage and HIV prevalence on HIV acquisition risk in the sub-Saharan context. 2) The study only explores four determinants, which is a small number. There is agreement that other determinants may not be easily measured, but they are still important and this should be acknowledged, rather than so quickly dismissed as the authors seem to do. For example, the cases of South Africa under T. Mbeki and Uganda under Y. Museveni show how these two differing political responses had a profound impact on national policy and the roll-out of ART in their respective countries. The study is someone limited, not strengthened, by not being able to include these factors in a statistical analysis. 3) It should be noted that the data used, World Development Indicators, contains measures that are themselves estimates and approximations. The data is at a national level, and will mask heterogeneity within countries that relate to differences in ART coverage and health-care expenditure by province or district etc. The potential limitations of the dataset should also be acknowledged. 4) The four hypotheses: The authors need to be far more explicit in outlining the causal mechanisms and pathways between the variables in each of the hypothesis. H1: Temporal ordering of this relationship needs to be acknowledged. The reverse of the hypothesis is equally likely. Countries that have a higher ART coverage will see a higher HIV prevalence, since more people with HIV will live longer if they have access to ART. See: Zaidi, Jaffer, et al. "Dramatic increases in HIV prevalence after scale-up of antiretroviral treatment: a longitudinal population-based HIV surveillance study in rural kwazulu-natal." AIDS (London, England) 27.14 (2013): 2301. H2-4) Please explain why there should be associations between the variables in these hypotheses. Why should higher levels of income per person result in higher ART coverage. In some countries, ART is provided free of charge. I am struggling to see the specific link here. What is the nurses/midwives measure trying to capture? The ability of a government to roll-out treatment through its health-clinics? Please explain. 5) Is the HED a measure of expenditure on HIV treatment and care specifically or just health generally? How do we know what proportion of this amount is going to HIV-infected individuals? 6) Authors should make an attempt to format their results into proper tables, rather than just submitting raw SPSS output.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1) The analysis shows the determinants are correlated. Importantly, there is a positive correlation between GDP and HIV prevalence. So 'wealthier' countries are likely to have a higher prevalence, according to these results. To what extent does this relationship mediate the results of the other associations. For example, on page 6 the authors write 'Countries with lower incomes have lower ART coverage'. But this may simply be because they have lower prevalence, thus decreasing the necessity for ART spending. 2) The authors find that high ART coverage is associated with a high HIV prevalence. This result seems to be intuitive, since we would expect countries with higher HIV prevalence to react by providing more ART at public health-care facilities. It is unclear what new information this result really adds to what we already know as of 2015. 3) There is a lot of multi-collinearity between the variables of the study. How appropriate is it therefore to include all of these determinants together in a multi-regression model? Can the authors regress HIV prevalence on each of the determinants separately and show the results. It could be that significant effects between each of the determinants and the outcome are being washed away when included together in one model. 4) Overall, I am not convinced that the relationships between the determinants and each other are acyclic, or between the determinants and the outcome are acyclic. As the authors note in the discussion, there is a ‘virtuous circle' cycle going on here, and I don't believe the paper has yet to convince me otherwise.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Please see above comments
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Determinants of antiretroviral therapy coverage in Sub-Saharan Africa (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1496v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Ping Du ·
Sep 23, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The authors described the study designs in details, however, the study sample size is relative small (N=41 countries) and only 4 factors were assessed in the study. The authors assumed that "only four elements have a decisive impact on the ART coverage in Sub-Saharan Africa", but they did not provide any evidence to support their assumption. An imporant factor, foreign aid, which is relevant to the study countries and the outcome and can also be assessed objectively, was not include in the study. In addition, the authors did not provide the reason why the number of nurses and midwives/1000 people, not the number of total medical professionals/1000 people, was used in the study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The statistical analyses are appropriate, but again, given the small sample size, although the coefficients for GDP and HED are strong, they did not reach the significance level. Additionally, the r-square seems small (0.243), suggesting that other factors contributing to the ART coverage are not included in the study. The authors should correct the slope coefficient for the HIV prevalence (1.001, not 2.225) in the results.
Comments for the author
The authors should add a paragraph of study limitations in the discussion. The length of the article should also be reduced as the detailed interpretation of the results is not necessary. Cite this review as
Du P ( 2015 ) Peer Review #3 of "Determinants of antiretroviral therapy coverage in Sub-Saharan Africa (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1496v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 29, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
