Review History for Feasibility of progressive sit-to-stand training among older hospitalized patients [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Feasibility of progressive sit-to-stand training among older hospitalized patients To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 15th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 3rd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on November 22nd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 23rd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michelle Ploughman
·
Nov 23, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have done an excellent job of addressing the reviewer's concerns
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 22, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michelle Ploughman
·
Nov 3, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript provides valuable and practical information on implementing research in an acute care setting. Other than the points made by the reviewers, I feel that the fact that only 48 patients met inclusion criteria while over 200 patients were excluded reflects the feasibility of the intervention. This suggests that other interventions may be required for those with more complex needs or higher disability. This fact should be addressed in the discussion.
label_author_1
Ulrich Lindemann ·
Oct 19, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Basic reporting is sound with the exception of the abstract. This is unclear in most parts unless you have read the whoöe manuscript. The abstract has to be revised in total.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Design and other methods are clearly described with only minor revision needed.Since this is a
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Since this is a feasibility/pilot study, some limitations are given, but are discussed appropriately. Conclusions are drawn from the results and perspectives are given.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Feasibility of progressive sit-to-stand training among older hospitalized patients #2015:10:7121:0:0:REVIEW This manuscript describes a new method how to exercise sit-to-stand performance in older hospitalized and functionally disabled persons. Abstract In general, most parts are clear not before reading the whole manuscript. Therefore, please revise in total. What is a “medical” patient? Suppose to delete the term “medical” here. Methods are not clear. “… to contraction failure (8-12 RM) …” Did you perform an 8-12 RM test? What was the test? Performing STS at one of the 8 levels? Were cognition and de Morten secondary outcomes? “The model was considered feasible” I would expect here anything regarding your stated main outcomes “… one set in the hospital and two sets at home;” what do you mean here? What about the typical outcomes of feasibility, such as participation, adverse effects, etc.? Unclear results: 19 patients were not at all tested in the hospital? 79% were not able to perform the lowest level at an 8-12 RM test in the hospital? Adverse events should belong to the first reported results. Introduction “medical patients”? LL 62-66: I understand that the decline of performance is due to bed rest or immobilization, right? You may add this here. LL 107-109: Again, this is unclear. You want to know, if any of the 8 levels of STAND can be performed 8-12 times? Methods Is there a rationale for excluding COPD patients? I use the SOMC score quite often and I know that high scores indicate cognitive impairment. Please check your statement (<22 = cognitive impaired). L 175: again, what do you mean with ”contraction failure”? L 183: AHHH!! You should give this explanation at the first occasion and I would avoid it in the abstract. LL 190-211: here you explain very clear! Only, I understand that you sometimes mean repetition, but not RM. This is crucial in Fig 1. If 8-12 repetitions are possible (not RM possible), the progression follows, right? Please check throughout the manuscript. LL 215-225: What about a measure of adherence in hospital and after discharge? Is there a rationale to apply parametric and non-parametric statistics? If not, I suppose to use either parametric or non-parametric statistics only, based on sample size (rather non-parametric) and distribution of parameter values. Results As I understand, only 48 patients fulfilled your inclusion criteria, because 224 patients had to be excluded based on pre-defined exclusion criteria. Discussion LL 329-330: You could add here physical activity, functional performance and independence as possible study endpoints, which you have raised in your introduction. LL 381-383: What you state here is not correct for those levels in need of ankle weights or the weight vest. This rather could be a limitation. Also the supervision needed may be a limitation, at least for the home exercises. Cite this review as
Lindemann U ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Feasibility of progressive sit-to-stand training among older hospitalized patients (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1500v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jennifer Shears ·
Oct 30, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
See attached doc
Experimental design
label_ed_2
See attached doc
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See attached doc
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Shears JS ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Feasibility of progressive sit-to-stand training among older hospitalized patients (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1500v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 15, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
