Review History for Deciphering the microRNA transcriptome of skeletal muscle during porcine development [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Deciphering the microRNA transcriptome of skeletal muscle during porcine development To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 23rd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 7th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on November 20th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 24th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Giulia Piaggio
·
Nov 24, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript is now ready for publication on PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 20, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Giulia Piaggio
·
Oct 7, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I will be glad to reconsider your paper if you will answer the questions raised by the reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 5, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript describes a comprehensive investigation of miRNA transcriptomes by RNA sequencing across five porcine muscle development stages including one prenatal stage and four postnatal stages which represented prenatal, natal, weaning, young adult, and middle-aged stages, respectively. The authors identified 404 known porcine miRNAs, 118 novel miRNAs, and 101 miRNAs that are conserved in other mammals and a set of universally abundant miRNAs common to all the development stages. They suggest that this miRNAs may play housekeeping roles in myogenesis. In addition, they describe enhanced expression levels of miRNAs related to differentiation and morphogenesis in the embryonic stage and miRNAs related to apoptosis later in muscle development. Some differentially expressed miRNA were validated by an independent method (qPCR). The manuscript is written in good English, the backgroud and results/discussion section well balanced and the figures sufficiently described.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is explained clearly, data well descibed and rigorously conducted and methods sufficiently detailed for reproducibility.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings appear robust and statistically sound. The data described highlight the importance of miRNA during pig muscle development and represent a source of data for future research. Some minor points should be addressed: 1) Legend to figures 1 and 4 should give more information on the statistical analysis (test utilized, number of experiments performed, etc.) 2) The sentence in introduction (line 93): “our study will contribute to genetic improvement of meat quality" is not justified by the data. The authors should either explain it or remove it. 3) The authors did not quote the paper from Qin et al, 2013 (Integrative Analysis of Porcine microRNAome during Skeletal Muscle Development by Qin L, Chen Y, Liu X, Ye S, Yu K, et al. (2013) Integrative Analysis of Porcine microRNAome during Skeletal Muscle Development. PLoS ONE 8(9): e72418. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072418), describing a very similar experimental approach. Similarities and differences shold be described and commented.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Deciphering the microRNA transcriptome of skeletal muscle during porcine development (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1504v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 7, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The work of Mai et al. aimed to obtain the microRNA profile of skeletal muscle during porcine development, extending the results of previous analysis, performed mostly during prenatal development, to middle-aged adult muscle when muscle growth is terminated. By including samples from middle aged pigs, authors intended also to identify miRNAs associated with muscle loss. The results of the work might advance the knowledge about miRNAs involved in the regulation of adult myogenesis in pigs, an issue that is still unexplored, therefore they meet the criteria to be published, upon some minor revisions. The purposes of the authors are clear in the introduction, I noticed that the sentence included in lines 74-77 is missing one verb (probably "increase"). In the diagrams of Fig. S1C and D, the p values are not indicated while described in the text: "we found that muscle fiber diameter and body weight were significantly increased (P < 0.001, one-way analysis of variance) from 0 d to 7 180 y". Given that one of the purposes of the authors is to identify miRNAs that are involved in the control of muscle homeostasis, in the "results section " describing the miRNA transcriptome profile, I would suggest to include references that describe the involvement of identified miRNAs in pathways that control hypertrophy and atrophy. For example for miR-27a: Huang et al. 2012, McFarlane et al. 2014. For miR-1: Kukreti et al. 2013, McCarthy & Esser 2007, Elia et al. 2009 etc. In the diagrams of figure 2 the color code is not always useful to identify the associated miRNAs (for example I had difficulties to identify miR-378): I would suggest to enlarge the squares that describe the color code. Authors should compare their results to those obtained in mice (Hamrick et al. 2010) and pigs (Hou et al. 2012, Huang et al 2008) and discuss overlaps and potential contradictions. Given the importance of the middle-aged muscle for the purposes of the authors, I would include the validation of some Differentially Expressed miRNAs that are up-regulated in the muscle obtained from 7 years old pigs, indeed all the 9 miRNAs analyzed in figure 4 are down-regulated in this stage. In figure 5 are reported the expression patterns of differentially regulated miRNAs and I think that, at least for pattern 4, the specific miRNAs should be disclosed to the readers, given that they include miRNAs upregulated in 7 years-old muscles and are involved in the regulation of pathways that control muscle homeostasis, an issue of particular interest in this work.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data are robust and findings are interesting, nevertheless I think that it will be important to indicate the miRNAs that are upregulated in middle-aged muscles (pattern 4 of Figure 5). In the conclusion section, authors state that "enhanced levels of apoptosis-related miRNAs in middle-aged pigs revealed possible elevated muscle atrophy during this period" (lanes 328-329), but this statement is not supported by the findings, indeed the average cross-sectional area of the fibers (Fig. S1) do not indicate atrophy.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Deciphering the microRNA transcriptome of skeletal muscle during porcine development (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1504v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 23, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
