Review History for Marine microbial communities of the Great Barrier Reef lagoon are influenced by riverine floodwaters and seasonal weather events [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Marine microbial communities of the Great Barrier Reef lagoon are influenced by riverine floodwaters and seasonal weather events To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 8th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 28th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on November 18th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 25th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Cristiane Thompson
·
Nov 25, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Based on the revised version of the manuscript, I have decided that your manuscript can be accepted for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 18, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Cristiane Thompson
·
Oct 28, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors, I agree with the reviewers' comments. And additional comments are below: 1. The authors call R and the library as a package. Usually, R is a language and the library is the package. 2. Explain how the statistical analysis help to answer the biological questions of the manuscript. This should be better explained in the text. 3. Clarify the definition of water quality variable in the M&M. 4. There is a disbalance between the number of marine and riverine samples. How can it interfere in the analysis? Please, make sure you address all the Editor and reviewers' suggestions or requirements, point-by-point.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 24, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Angly et al. performed a broad diversity study in river, plume, and sea at Tuly river area. The authors use both 16S rRNA pyrosequencing and physical-chemical characterization of water quality. They went on and found correlations between environmental features and microbial types, proposing indicator microbes and environmental indexes. I have only a few minor remarks. 1. How did the authors manage to differentiate Synechos from Prochloros using the 16S fragment (Line 251, 272)? 2. I did not find a discussion on the seasonality of the plume (Line 311). Is it always covering the same marine area? If not, how it changes over the time? 3. Remove/re-work Lines 260-264. 4. Can the authors discuss further the health index/water quality in a broader context comparing with other reef areas (line 314)?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Marine microbial communities of the Great Barrier Reef lagoon are influenced by riverine floodwaters and seasonal weather events (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1511v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 27, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The research paper “Marine microbial communities of the Great Barrier Reef lagoon are influenced by riverine floodwaters and seasonal weather events” by Angly et al., investigates bacterial and archaeal diversity in the vicinity of the Great Barrier Reef using 16S rDNA amplicon pyrosequencing spanning a three year timeline. The presented results are a good baseline description of the water quality parameter and its association with bacterial and archaeal richness. Although the manuscript is technically sound, it needs improvement regarding the discussion of the data obtained, which is quite descriptive in nature. I have several comments to be addressed by the authors.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is acceptable, although I have some comments on the General comments items 1 – 2.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data and the data analysis are strong and sound which provided a reasonable first step towards a baseline for the water quality and bacterial richness. However, I have concerns about the impact of archaeal results given the experimental set up (item 3 on General Comments).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Some suggestions are provided below. 1) I could not find in the Material and Methods section whether each site sampled has biological replicates. 2) It is stated that a 10 times greater sequencing effort would be needed to cover/saturate the OTUs richness. Why did the authors use pyro instead of illumina sequencing to achieve just that? 3) I am sure there are now available primer sets more suitable to target the Archaea domain (that are based on the alignment of a large number of archaea) than the ones listed on M&M. Why the authors use the same set to target both Bacteria and Archaea? 4) A better explanation must be added for the selection points used. For instance, all points seem to follow the shoreline (even TT4, RI, and FI) where the disturbance from the main land river and plumes, probably, would be the more striking. The question would be why not add a transector moving away from the mainland/ river plumes to address how far this influence takes place both in terms of water quality and microbial richness fluctuations. 5) Figure 6 in gray scale is very difficult to read, please change font to black. 6) It would be interesting to the readers to have some information about the coral health on the closest reefs during the sampling time and location points. The water quality components were well monitored during the process, but nothing is reported about the status of coral health. Would the plumes, at least in the wet season, be strong enough to influence coral health status? 7) Line 366 and Figure S6 in the Results/Discussion section “This unusual extreme event period…eukaryotic to prokaryotic reads ratio (EPR)…” the authors want to use EPR to make the case for water column disturbances? If so, this statement does very little for the discussion, unless the authors want to establish some kind of ecological meaning this paragraph is not needed. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Marine microbial communities of the Great Barrier Reef lagoon are influenced by riverine floodwaters and seasonal weather events (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1511v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 8, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
