Review History for Hypoxia-inducible C-to-U coding RNA editing downregulates SDHB in monocytes [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Hypoxia-inducible C-to-U coding RNA editing downregulates SDHB in monocytes To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 13th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 27th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on August 14th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 14th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Howard Young
·
Aug 14, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You changes were accepted and the manuscript is now ready for publication. Congratulations.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 14, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Howard Young
·
Jun 27, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Authors, I believe that your paper is worthy of publication but please try to especially address the concerns of the first reviewer. I am not concerned about comment 3 but I do believe that a response to the first 2 concerns is needed.
label_author_1
Balamurugan Kuppusamy ·
Jun 26, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
See below
Experimental design
label_ed_1
See below
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See below
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript by Baysal et al studies the effect of hypoxia on C to U RNA editing of SDHB gene in monocytes. Previous studies show that SDH is a heterotetrameric tumor suppressor complex mutated in paraganglioma tumors due to hypoxia-inducible activation pathways. The authors studied regulation, extent and cell type origin of SDHB RNA editing. The authors found that RNA editing is low in monocyte-enriched PBMCs under normal condition, however, markedly increased under hypoxic conditions. This leads to down regulation of SDHB gene and consequently an increase in monocyte cell survival. Overall these findings add the mechanistic details to our understanding of the RNA editing under physiologically relevant conditions such as hypoxia, however additional data would support and strengthen their conclusions. Major concerns: 1.The authors show that hypoxia, one of the physiological conditions, increased the C136U RNA editing of SDHB transcripts in CD14+ monocytes. -Are HIF-factors (HIF-1alpha/HIF-2alpha) involved in this process? -Does the knockdown of these would rescue the change in the C136U RNA editing of SDHB transcripts in CD14+ monocytes? -Is the RNA editing pattern changed when these CD14+ monocytes are treated with inflammatory conditions (for example LPS) which is also one of the microenvironmental conditions. - 2.On page 22, the authors state that “the suppression of SDH might be an evolutionarily conserved metabolic adaptation to hypoxia….. due to enhanced glycolysis”. Though the data suggest that the C136U RNA editing is increased which should supposedly decrease the express, however, SDHB protein levels were unchanged under hypoxic conditions compared to normoxia (Figure 4D). I do not think that changes in the RNA editing of this gene is sufficient to conclude that SDHB expression is downregulated leading to enhanced glycolysis. 3.The authors showed RNA editing pattern in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (lymphocytes and monocyte-enriched population). Did the authors by chance look at the status of RNA editing in polymorphonuclear cells, especially neutrophils, which are also part of the immune system and have key role(s) in the immunological processes. Minor issues: 1.Provide p values for the figures: 1C-E, 2C and 4A, B and E 2. Figure 4 legends, line 8, change C13U into C136U RNA editing Cite this review as
Kuppusamy B ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Hypoxia-inducible C-to-U coding RNA editing downregulates SDHB in monocytes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.152v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jianyun Liu ·
Jun 24, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
1.In line 322, “>= fold change”, a “3” is missing. 2.In Fig.1A, 9 lymphoblastoid cell lines and one fibroblastic cell line were included, but the authors did not provide names and sources of these cell lines.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this manuscript, Baysal investigated RNA editing of SDHB (C136U) in different cell types and human tissues using both bioinformatics tools and wet lab tools. They provided massive amount of data to support their hypothesis that hypoxia induces RNA editing of SDHB and downregulates its expression in monocytes. The authors have performed many hypothesis-driven and well-designed experiments. Overall, this manuscript is well-written and the results are properly interpreted with some speculations. Two minor points are listed below: 1.In line 322, “>= fold change”, a “3” is missing. 2.In Fig.1A, 9 lymphoblastoid cell lines and one fibroblastic cell line were included, but the authors did not provide names and sources of these cell lines. Cite this review as
Liu J ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Hypoxia-inducible C-to-U coding RNA editing downregulates SDHB in monocytes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.152v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 13, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
