Review History for Analysis of synonymous codon usage patterns in sixty-four different bivalve species [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Analysis of synonymous codon usage patterns in sixty-four different bivalve species To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 6th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 13th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on November 20th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 28th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Nov 28, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Authors have imrpoved the manuscript according to the proposed suggestions.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 20, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
May 13, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The manuscript should be improved and rewritten in a succinct manner avoiding more known descriptions.
label_author_1
Saverio Vicario ·
Apr 22, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No main Comments. Introduction complete. The topic is relevant for the genomic research both to help Bivalvia genome annotations and to understand CUB pattern and possibly processes across biodiversity.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The article is mainly descriptive but explore some correlation between variables that are informative on the process that produced the described patterns. __ORF identification__: The analysis depends from the assembly of transcriptome and ORF identification. This analysis was done ab initio and ex novo by the authors of the manuscript. Unfortunately the authors gives very scant information on the quality of this process and do not comment on possible bias. The software Transcoder use codon usage of the 500 best ORF( in length, within canonical set [ presence of clear start and stop codon]) to find the rest of the ORFs. This could cause the transcript set to be more homogenous than the real one in term of CUB. Unfortunately no homologous search was implemented as Transcoder would allow. Some discussion on these choices and on the quality of the outcomes could be useful to evaluate results. Further the few information available (N50==450nt-> 150aa) show a very fragmented reconstruction of the proteomes, given that N50 ( a strange statistics for protein size) gives value larger than median and 150aa is a very small protein (in uniprot only 25% of protein of bivalvia are equal or smaller than this value) . I would have preferred that comparison on CUB would have been done based well annotated subset of genes in C. gigas and an homologous/paralogous filtering across the 67 genomes. I think in CUB analysis is more relevant to have an unbiased sample more than a more complete sample. __Preferred Codons__: pag 10 198-202 the authors make reference to Vicario, Moriyama & Powell, 2007 ) for their method but within that article the RSCU method is not considered optimal and indeed get less crisp results than others method in the 2007 paper. Given that the correlation between overall ENC and codon frequency use the same data than the one in this MS maybe a more clean result could be obtained using correlation. The sentence "Not surprisingly, most amino acids showing a preference for certain codons did in turn show avoidance for others" is more to do with mathematical property of RSCU than a biological reality. A correlation approach would be more telling allowing to distinguish between no correlation and positive correlation between ENC and codon frequency.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The overall analysis assume a substantial homogeneity of CUB and GC across genomes. This assumption makes calculate ENC value not for each ORF/transcript identified but for each group of size, or expression. This is probably a misleading and unnecessary simplification that mix patterns. In the conclusion the author state "The identification of a reference set of highly expressed housekeeping genes, would allow the calculation of the Codon Adaptation Index (CAI)" but highly expression genes alone even if not bona fide house keeping could be in any case a good set to build CAI index. A very simple CAI and ENC graph could give a synthetic depiction of CUB variation within each of the genomes. The amount of variation of CUB and its relation with expression could help to distinguish process linked to overall genome composition from the one linked to translation, while with the actual analysis the main points are that CUB is mild in Bivalvia and effect of translation are visible only for highly expressed genes.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
the supplemental table was not downloadable. Cite this review as
Vicario S ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Analysis of synonymous codon usage patterns in sixty-four different bivalve species (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1520v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 12, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The results are based on methods used in this study. However, I strongly feel that the manuscript is written in highly descriptive manner. Many of the reports made here are already known. Nothing new here, just another organism being studies. I would request the authors to rewrite it in very succinct manner without being descriptive.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Although most part of the methods are logical to the aim of the study, I am not convinced about the methods of inferring selection and phylogeny from codon bias data. This is because: 1. the authors have done nothing to control the effect of mutational bias on codon bias. This is critical because the relationship, without considering mutational bias, codon bias will fluctuate if there is selection on G/C (bias in codon usages) and mutational bias is on A/T positions. 2. The most important issue of this paper is that the authors try to suggest lack of relationship between phylogeny and codon bias without taking into consideration of ancestral genetic recombination in the coding sequences. For example, intracodon recombination (see Arenas M, Posada D. Coalescent simulation of intracodon recombination. Genetics. 2010 Feb;184(2):429-37) can skew the relationship between codon bias and phylogeny is not properly controlled in codon bias studies . Without considering the coalescent events into consideration, current study can have very misleading.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Unless the experimental designs are properly controlled as I indicated above, the findings may have pitfalls.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Please rewrite the paper in a concise and precise manner that reveals new findings without describing about lot of things that are already known about codon bias (for example codon bias and its relation with GC3, this is just one example). Present results that is only novel. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Analysis of synonymous codon usage patterns in sixty-four different bivalve species (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1520v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 6, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
