Review History for Between tide and wave marks: a unifying model of physical zonation on littoral shores [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Between tide and wave marks: a unifying model of physical zonation on littoral shores To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 16th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 14th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on August 16th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 18th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
John Bruno
·
Aug 18, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I think the paper is good shape for production.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 16, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
John Bruno
·
Aug 14, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
First. I want to thank you for submitting to PeerJ and also to apologize for the too long review time. I had ten people decline my invitation to review. Probably a record, but does seem to be getting harder and harder to find reviewers. Both reviewers were supportive and only asked for very minor revisions. Can you do this quickly and resubmit? When I get it back, I will not send it out again and will make a final decision within 24 hours.
label_author_1
Elvira Poloczanska ·
Aug 10, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I agree with the authors that this study represents an advancement of our understanding of physical processes operating on littoral shores. The authors present and conceptual model and modelling framework that can be applied across a range or temporal and spatial scales. The background leading to this study is presented succinctly and demonstrates the foundations for this body of work.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See above
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Paragraph starting line 52: The authors may wish to consider expanding the discussion re community composition and wave exposure eg see Burrows et al 2008 Wave exposure indices from digital coastlines and the prediction of rocky shore community structure. Marine Ecology Progress Series 353: 1-12 and Thomas 1986 A physically derived exposure index for marine shorelines. Ophelia 25:1-13. Line 79-87: I suggest bringing in a sentance to highlight that tidal regimes are also differ regionally,eg semi-diurnal, diurnal or semi-mixed, Line 112: I think you are referring to Fig 3a not Fig 1. Line: 159: incorrect spelling “co-domintated” Cite this review as
Poloczanska E ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Between tide and wave marks: a unifying model of physical zonation on littoral shores (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.154v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 8, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This paper presents a novel model that explores the interaction between tidal and wave forces in generating intertidal zonation patterns. I have heard the senior author speak at national meetings about this model and seen a couple versions of this paper previously. It should have been published years (6 or so) ago when it was first presented, but it unreasonably offended established rocky intertidal ecologists who were too set in their ways to accept fresh thinking about the drivers of intertidal zonation. Frankly, this should have been an ecology paper and in textbooks. It improves upon all the earlier models of Coleman, Doty and the Stephenson’s. The disparity between the intertidal mafia and a bright ambitious ecologist working alone in Hawaii w/o contact with high profile intertidal ecologists was that most established intertidal ecologists worked in habitats with large tidal ranges, ranges greater than local wave amplitudes. Bird was working in Hawaii where the tidal amplitude far exceeded the tidal amplitude. He did outstanding community assembly experimental shoreline ecology on his system, but since he was working alone in a system with very different parameters his work met resistance from the intertidal establishment on all his experimental work. This model incorporating these disparities in a general model is an outstanding example of originality coming out of a novel system that can teach us a general lesson. That his work was blackballed by established intertidal ecologist is a sad statement about how established dogma and their protagonists can hold back advancement based on myopic ideas. This paper is already in perfect condition after numerous submissions, improvements and rewrites. Unfortunately, Bird has moved on to molecular evolution work where he is excelling, leaving the pettiness of rocky intertidal ecologists behind. He could have been an exceptional experimental community ecologist with better mentoring and more open-minded rocky intertidal researchers.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
N/A
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
N/A
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Between tide and wave marks: a unifying model of physical zonation on littoral shores (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.154v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 16, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
