Review History for The complete mitochondrial genome of Lerema accius and its phylogenetic implications [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The complete mitochondrial genome of Lerema accius and its phylogenetic implications To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 20th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 2nd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on December 8th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 9th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Robert Toonen
·
Dec 9, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am satisfied that you have addressed the comments of the reviewers in your revision, and am happy to move your paper forward into publication. I note that there are still some issues with the English in the manuscript (e.g., "about 60% of a illumine lane" should read "about 60% of an Illumina lane") but beyond these minor corrections, the paper is sound and ready for acceptance.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 8, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Robert Toonen
·
Nov 2, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I now have reviews back from 2 referees who are both enthusiastic about the manuscript and agree that only minor revisions are needed to make the manuscript suitable for publication. In revisions, I ask that you pay particular attention to the request for additional details in the methods and the naming conventions for mitochondrial genes pointed out by the referees. Still, I expect that it will be relatively straightforward for you to complete these revisions, and I look forward to seeing your revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 27, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors meet standards for basic reporting. With the emergence of butterflies and moths as model organisms, the authors wished to assemble the mitochondrial genome for Lerema accius, for which a nuclear genome was previously assembled by the same group. The authors have presented a rather straightforward process in which whole genome DNA from a single individual was prepared using standard techniques and sequenced on the Illumina HiSeq platform. Mitochondrial baiting and iterative mapping using several published reference mitogenomes were used to extract sequencing reads from the complete set of reads. A de novo assembly was performed on this subset of reads, and the resulting contig was circularized, evaluated for consistency with other published genomes, and annotated. Phylogenetic analyses with other published mitogenomes yielded largely expected results, with one unexpected topology.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors sequence a single specimen of the species, and use standard methods to assemble the mitogenome.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The manuscript is very straightforward, and the authors appear to have followed due diligence in constructing the mitochondrial genome, although neither raw data, nor NCBI accession numbers were provided for peer review. Recommended edits to improve ease of reading may be found on the “track edits” version of the reviewed manuscript.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Keywords are all found in the title. Choose keywords that will enhance searches beyond what your title provides. Methods: This paper is lacking a significant amount of detail regarding specimen collection and preparation of reads included in the Cong et al. 2015 paper. If the same methods were used to produce sequences as in the Cong et al. 2015 paper, these should be included in this paper as well. For example, it is not clear from the methods section in this paper that DNA was prepared using multiple kits, then pooled prior to sequencing, as was explained in the Cong et al. 2015 paper. In this paper, it appears they were sequenced separately, and processed separately downstream. Conclusions: The authors mention an unexpected topology in which “the two Asian grass skippers (Potanthus from the tribe Taractrocerini and Polytremis from the tribe Baorini) are grouped together, and Lerema (from the tribe Moncini) is their sister.” As this is a follow-up study to a whole-genome sequencing effort in which the nuclear genome was assembled (Cong et al. 2015), was this unexpected result consistent with previous results based on nuclear markers? Are barcodes, such as COI, which is stated in the Cong et al. 2015 paper as being very useful for this taxon, available that could be used to verify this result? Table 2 is somewhat redundant to Figure 1. If bp are added to Figure 1 so gene locations within the mitogenome may be discerned from the figure, Table 2 may be moved to supplemental materials. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The complete mitochondrial genome of Lerema accius and its phylogenetic implications (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1546v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Zhaojun Wei ·
Nov 1, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript characters the complete Mitogenomes Lerema accius by Next Generation Sequencing methods. Although there are no different to the structure of other Lepidoptera, the sequence method is novelty. I suggest it can be accept after minor revision. 1 part ‘Mitogenome assembly’, ‘after its C---terminus and before its N---terminus’, to DNA, we always used 5’- or 3’ terminus; to protein, C---terminus or N---terminus always be used. Please check it is OK? 2 Part ‘Annotation of the mitogenome’, Genbank should be GenBank, Why number only XYZ? Please check it. 3 In general, there is not complete agreement on the correct designation and naming of the mitochondrial genes. However, the most "standardized" convention (i.e. see Boore LJ: Requirements and standards for organelle genome databases. OMICS A journal of Integrative Biology 2006, 10(2):119-126.) suggests to use lowercase and italic letters when referring to PCGs (i.e. atp8, not ATP8) and lowercase and italic letter with a single letter in capitals when referring to a tRNA gene (i.e. trnL(uaa) not tRNA-Leu). 4 When writing numbers in regular text, generally those under ten are written out, while those ten and above can be in the form of numerals. Make sure this is consistent throughout the paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Well shown.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Well shown.
Cite this review as
Wei Z ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "The complete mitochondrial genome of Lerema accius and its phylogenetic implications (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1546v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 20, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
