Review History for Age-related changes in the distributions of depressive symptom items in the general population: a cross-sectional study using the exponential distribution model [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Age-related changes in the distributions of depressive symptom items in the general population: a cross-sectional study using the exponential distribution model To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 7th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 5th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on November 23rd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on December 2nd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 9th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
C. Robert Cloninger
·
Dec 9, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your thoughtful article is a valuable contribution to the literature.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 2, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.2
C. Robert Cloninger
·
Nov 29, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Your response to the earlier reviews was excellent and clarified the purpose and significance of your findings. I would encourage you to consider shortening the abstract to 250 words since some abstracting services truncate abstracts after 250 words. Your current abstract is over 400 words. Also notice that "aging" is misspelled in your revision - there is no "e" before "i". Also referring to a "mathematical model" is not informative; I suggest it would be better to refer to an exponential distribution explicitly. Thank you for your useful observations and conclusions.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 23, 2015
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
C. Robert Cloninger
·
Nov 5, 2015
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The two reviews are both thoughtful and make substantial practical recommendations. You can see that the issues are substantial, including statistical issues about factor structure, adequacy of the literature review, adequacy of the challenge made about using sums for scale values, and an apparent disinterest in the substantive issue of aging. Any one of these could lead to rejection, and a revision might not be acceptable. I am willing to consider a revision but cannot predict whether the paper will ultimately be acceptable because it is unclear to me whether you are able or willing to carry out what is essentially a reanalysis and rewriting.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 22, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is an interesting study on the age specific changes of depression symptomatology using the CES-D as a measure of depression
Experimental design
label_ed_1
A major criticism of mine to this manuscript is the authors’ idiosyncratic use of statistics. Using their past investigation, the authors presented a mathematical formula to predict probabilities of each of the CES-D items. Then they divided the CES-D items into the negative and positive items. Nevertheless, when using a measure with multiple items (such as the CES-D), researchers first shed light on its factor structure. In a meta-analysis of the factor analytic studies of the CES-D, Shafer et al. (2006) noted that the measure had a 4-factor structure: somatic, depressed affect, positive affect, and interpersonal problems. The authors of the present study should be encouraged to perform an exploratory factor analysis in a randomly divided sample and then a confirmatory factor analysis in the other halved sample. If the authors are not very happy about dealing the CES-D items as distributing normally, they should be referred to Muthen and Muthen’s Mplus method. This will give a clearer picture of the symptomatic structure of depression, If, as suggested by Shafer et al. (2006), the 4-factor structure is confirmed in the present study, the authors should discuss the age-specific effect on each of the four CES-D subscales. Another important topic is whether the factor structure of the CES-D is unvarying over the wide age ranges. The factor structure found among young adults may be different from that found among elderly people. This should be examined by a multi-group structural equation modelling method. These basic statistical examination should usher the main part of the study: age-specificity. Shafer, A. B. (2006). Meta-analysis of the factor structures of four depression questionnaires: Beck, CES-D, Hamilton, and Zung. Journal of Clinical Psychology, 62, 123-146. The problem of using both negative as well as positive items in order to measure depressive symptoms was clearly studied by Iwata and colleagues (1995, 1998). These reference should be carefully examined. Iwata, N., Roberts, C. R., & Kawakami, N. (1995). Japan-U.S. comparison of responses to depression scale items among adult workers. Psychiatry Research, 58, 237-245. Iwata, N., Saito, K., & Roberts, R. E. (1994). Responses to a self-administered depression scale among younger adolescents in Japan. Psychiatry Research, 53, 275-287. Iwata, N., Umesue, M., Egashira, K., Hiro, H., Mizoue, T., Mishima, N., & Nagata, S. (1998). Can positive affect items be used to assess depressive disorders in the Japanese population? Psychological Medicine, 28, 153-158. Others comments are as follows: 1: Was the ethical approval given prior to 2000 when the Activity Survey of Health and Welfare (ASHW) was conducted? Why did the Panasonic Health Centre, seemingly a private sector, give ethical approval to this kind of a government-led survey? 2: More than 9,000 participants’ data were deleted list-wise when any one CES-D items, age, or sex were missing. There is a great statistical concern about producing a bias in the study’s results. He authors should perform multiple imputation for dealing with cases with variables with missing data. 3: The abstract should be shortened. 4: Comparison of the Likert and binary methods lack scientific ground. Why should this be examined? I do not see any merit in such a comparison.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This manuscript has strength in its sample size. However, it requires further consideration in statistics.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Age-related changes in the distributions of depressive symptom items in the general population: a cross-sectional study using the exponential distribution model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1547v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Ada Zohar ·
Oct 31, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Review: Age-related changes in depressive symptom items across the life-span in the general population… Strengths: This paper undertakes a puzzling inconsistency in the measurement of depressive symptoms in the elderly and tries to resolve it with mathematical analysis of the probability of response choice of older people on a Likert-like scale. The writing is excellent; the figures enhance the text, the sample has the power to address the research questions.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
As far as I could make out the experimental design was well-suited to address the research questions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Weaknesses: As a general criticism, this paper is written as if the authors have no stake in the actual issue of ageing and depression. This makes the paper much less interesting than it can be. Here are some specific points that may be addressed by the authors: 1. The literature review does not make it clear if this a novel approach or whether others have undertaken it. 2. The idea that a Likert-like scale is not an interval scale but an ordinal scale is at the base of the approach of the current work. It should be spelled out and discussed. 3. If the authors are correct, then the practice of calculating a scale sum or scale mean and using that number as a continuous measure of the construct in question is wrong. Since this is widely used in psychological research and in social science in general the discussion really needs to face this head-on, and discuss the implications of the results. 4. I was left unclear about what the authors conclude: do they conclude that with ageing people are more depressed? Or are they saying that this is a response bias that comes with ageing and therefore an artifact? Or are they saying that it is impossible to tell which of the two is correct? 5. Another point that comes up in the Results but is not really addressed in the Discussion, is the fact that as depressive symptoms are more endorsed by the elderly so are the positive affect items. Is this an artifact? Is this part of the ageing happiness paradox that Laura Carsten has studied?
Comments for the author
As a general criticism, this paper is written as if the authors have no stake in the actual issue of ageing and depression. This makes the paper much less interesting than it can be. Cite this review as
Zohar AH ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Age-related changes in the distributions of depressive symptom items in the general population: a cross-sectional study using the exponential distribution model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1547v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 7, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
