Review History for In planta comparative transcriptomics of host-adapted strains of Ralstonia solanacearum [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History In planta comparative transcriptomics of host-adapted strains of Ralstonia solanacearum To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 27th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 12th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on December 8th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 9th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Christine Josenhans
·
Dec 9, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Drs. Caitilyn Allen, Florent Ailloud and Philippe Prior, Thank you for your thorough revision, which addresses all reviewers' comments sufficiently, and for careful editing of the manuscript. Best wishes, Christine Josenhans Academic Editor for PeerJ
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 8, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Christine Josenhans
·
Nov 12, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors, Dear Florent Ailloud et Philippe Prior, We have received reviews from two well-informed reviewers on the manuscript and I have also read it myself. All comments are congruent in that it is a valid and well-presented study generating a wealth of transcriptomics data of the two Rs species which will be interesting to many researchers in the field. Please note the comments of the reviewers and integrate them into the discussion / conclusions. Also make sure, as in particular reviewer 2 points out, to add the project accession numbers for the RNA-seq experiments to the M&M section of the manuscript. Thanking you very much for sending your fine manuscript to PeerJ. Kind regards, Christine Josenhans
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 10, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In this manuscript, Aillound and coworkers examined the expression profiles of two related strains of the plant pathogen Ralstonia solanacearum called Moko and NPB. A previous study revealed that Moko and NPB are highly similar at the genomic level, however, their host range is quite different (Moko can infect banana, while NBP has lost this ability). To identify, the cause(s) for the different host range, the authors employed RNA-seq to determine the transcriptomes of both strains. Several experimental conditions were tested, including direct contact of the two strains with host plants. Differentially expressed genes were determined, categorized and discussed in the context of their potential role in host-microbe interactions. The manuscript includes a wealth of transcriptomic data which should be interesting to many scientists in the field.Since the manuscript contains no follow-up experiments it remains largely descriptive and, as a result, lacks scientific novelty. However, it does work as an initial screen for genes relevant for pathogenicity of Ralstonia strains.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The study is well motivated, the experimental design is solid and the description in the text is clear.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Three independent biological replicates of each condition were performed providing sufficient statistical significance. Please add the accession number(s) for the RNA-seq experiments to the M&M section of the manuscript.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
As indicated above, I think that a few additional experiments focusing on the differentially expressed transcripts identified in this study (e.g. encoding genes involved in siderophore production) could improve the impact of this study. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "In planta comparative transcriptomics of host-adapted strains of Ralstonia solanacearum (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1549v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 12, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript is well-prepared. The structure and overall content are clear. However, a few mistakes should be corrected. For instance (but not limited to these): line 28-30, line 208.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This study aimed to investigate the nature of host specificities between two genetically closely related Rs strains by transcriptomic analysis. Overall, the experimental designs mostly fit the goal of this study. Comprehensive comparative RNA Seq analyses of good-qualities were carried out and massive useful transcriptome data were generated. Methods are sufficiently described. These would certainly benefit the scientific communities. A few questions/comments: (1) Were the materials collected from three biological repeats for each experimental condition pooled and subjected to RNA Seq, or they were subjected to RNA Seq separately? (2) To establish a successful infection, Rs needs to overcome many hostile factors throughout its way and colonization in plant root and stembase at the early infection stage is very critical, especially when Rs encounters different host plant species. In this study, in planta bacteria were collected from stems of infected plants with an average wilting score of 1.0 and containing a bacterium density higher than 108 CFU/g tissue, when the bacterium has complete its infection by secreting a large amount of exopolysaccharides. Therefore, the results reveal mainly the shared as well as different features of the two strains at the final stage of bacterial pathogenesis, rather than the most critical initial stage of infection. (3) It is a pity that Moko-melon and NPB-banana samples were not included for the comparative transcriptome analyses to make further comprehensive and appropriate comparisons. This is particularly critical for finding and comparing decisive factors regulating host specificities at the initial infection stage between the two Rs strains.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data were well-analyzed and statistically sound. This study provides new information regarding RSSC pathogenesis in the corresponding susceptible host plants. It is recommended that the points I raised above should be taken into consideration for the discussion and conclusions.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "In planta comparative transcriptomics of host-adapted strains of Ralstonia solanacearum (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1549v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 27, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
