Review History for Publication trends in neuroimaging of minimally conscious states [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Publication trends in neuroimaging of minimally conscious states To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 19th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 14th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on August 2nd, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on August 18th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 18th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Mikhail Gelfand
·
Aug 18, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
While I still think that some estimate of statistical significance could improve the paper, I do not insist.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 18, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Mikhail Gelfand
·
Aug 10, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The revised manuscript still does not address the issue of statistical significance. Editorial: the sentence “While the information about the speed of processing that EEG exceeds that of fMRI, information about the spatial distribution of function across brain regions pales comparatively” seems to be incomplete. Unfortunately, the revised manuscript did not contain tracked changes, as it has been suggested in the decision letter.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 2, 2013
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mikhail Gelfand
·
Jul 14, 2013
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
In addition to the reviewers' comments, the following points should be taken into account. One major issue not addressed in the text is disambiguation of homonymous author names. Chimeric “authors” assigned with papers (MeSH terms etc) by different people may (or may not) severely confound the analysis. This needs to be addressed or at least discussed. Statements such as “(something is) climbing linearly” need to be supplied with a calculation of statistical significance or re-phrased. The Methods session is not sufficiently detailed, contains many implicit assumptions and undefined terms, does not provide motivation for specific analyses. E.g. why calculation of node centrality (ca. line 98) is relevant in the context of the study? why pruning is sufficient to counteract the Matthew effect (footnote note 1 to line 90)? The Introduction lacks references to many relevant papers on similar bibliometric studies. In fact, the manuscript shows almost no connection to previous work. The term “low-level research” (line 150) sounds denigrating, although probably not intentionally. How is correction for years since publication applied (if any)? – this is relevant when, e.g., most frequently cited papers are discussed (line 155). Trends for NiMCS papers are not compared with trends in similar or generic areas: hence, no comparison can be made and no conclusions formed.
label_author_1
Ahmad Aziz ·
Jul 8, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
- In order to aid the reader in understanding the full scope of the article please provide a short description of the techniqual terms such as 'ForceAtlas2 algorithm' and Louvain modularity.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
- Do the authors have also searched PubMed in 'free text' mode? This is important as not all relevant/recent articles are MeSh indexed. - Choosing to include only open acces articles may introduce a bias as the 'top gear' journals are unfortunately usually not open access. However, I understand very well that this method is likely dictated by practical considerations. The authors should therefore at least mention this point in the discussion section of the article. - The authors note that in the field of NiMCH the average number of authors is gradually increasing. Although this is true, it is not an exception as the average number of authors on biomedical papers in general is gradually increasing as more and more researchers begin to collaborate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
- The authors should include a paragraph in the discussion section of their manuscript elaborating on the potential limitations of their method. In particular it is important to stress that bibliometric analysis is only a very indirect measure of the impact and direction of a field, for example, as it is necessarily based on past results, In other words, the most recent ideas, conceps and results are simply waiting to be published.
Cite this review as
Aziz A ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Publication trends in neuroimaging of minimally conscious states (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.155v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 3, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Excellent-- a scholarly presentation
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Study used appropriate, and widely accepted bibliometric methods in their design
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Findings are rather straightforward and corroborate prior research
Comments for the author
I wish that the author(s) had expanded in their discussion , in more detail, regarding the specific topical areas in Neuro-Imaging or MCS that were highly ranked in the analysis. The reasons why some topics are emphasized (& others not) should be explored. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Publication trends in neuroimaging of minimally conscious states (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.155v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 19, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
