Review History for The effect of repeated laser stimuli to ink-marked skin on skin temperature—recommendations for a safe experimental protocol in humans [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The effect of repeated laser stimuli to ink-marked skin on skin temperature—recommendations for a safe experimental protocol in humans To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 2nd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 2nd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on December 16th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 16th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Desmond Tobin
·
Dec 16, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for comprehensively taking on board the reviewers' comments and on improving the manuscript accordingly. Specifically, you have more clearly highlighted for the reader some of the key limitations of this study, which cannot be removed via subsequent revision. I am confident this study will make an important contribution to the field.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 16, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Desmond Tobin
·
Nov 2, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I agree with the reviewers' comments, some points have been highlighted by all reviewers e.g., you have used a black colored ink to draw the dots where another lighter color with lower absorption of 1340 nm light (e.g., white) may be been preferable? Also, you will be need to more clearly state the rationale and motivation for this study (e.g., to include two groups with and without pain).
label_author_1
Chia-Chen Wang ·
Oct 24, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1.Why and how did participants receive stimuli in pairs? Were the two stimuli of each pair delivered with a fixed distance? 2.Since blackened skin is known to absorb more radiant energy, do you think it is safer to use an ink color which has less absorption at 1340 nm wavelength?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Cite this review as
Wang C ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The effect of repeated laser stimuli to ink-marked skin on skin temperature—recommendations for a safe experimental protocol in humans (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1577v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 28, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The focus is on safety of laser stimuli for diagnostic purposes. The experiments are reported faithfully, though the method section needs some clarification (see comments)
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is just acceptable. It should have been done more carefully. There are several flaws summarized in the comments section. These are not serious enough as to suggest rejection, but should be given attention
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
What they found is clearly stated and respondent to the aims of the paper. Some data could have been more thoroughly exlpoited.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The study addresses the issue of safety and standardization in the use of Nd:YAP lasers for diagnostic purposes (perception of nociceptive threshold and LEPs) in marked skin. The experiments are fairly sound, but there are a number of questions that should be answered. 1)Why the need to mark the skin?. The authors say to identify definite spots on the skin. However the authors only consider black colour. Did they take into account that with a different colour the problem of undesired absorption could be overcome (white, for example)? Could they please discuss this issue? 2)Skin was marked with a matrix of tiny black spots spaced 5x4mm. So the marked surface was minimal. What is the rationale of such design? Is it because they wanted to avoid any significant increase in temperature at the skin surface and only use marks to define targeted skin areas? If so, they should be aware that blackening the skin makes the laser beam more selective to Adelta receptors, as the rise in temperature is much more superficial. They irradiated a spot of 3.5mm in diameter (they say “size”, please specify better that size means diameter) centred on a mark 0.4mm diam. They were then in a condition of rather uneven stimulation. When irradiating the black spot they were in a similar condition as the CO2 laser (definitely selective for A delta, but prone to burning), whilst when irradiating unmarked skin, heating was deeper and stimulation possibly not as selective. This should be discussed and clarified. 3) How did they synchronize the camera with the stimulus? I guess that the temperature lecture was an average either in space (camera definition is just 640x480 pixels) and in time. But which time? And what was the dimension of the framed picture? Actually, we won’t know the actual temperature reached by the marked spots, where some burning could have taken place. Did they remove the ink after the experiments and checked with a dermatoscope possible damage to the skin at those tiny sites? 4)I couldn’t find the stimulus duration. Of course if the energy of 2J is delivered in a short time, it will cause a steeper rise in temperature than a long time. Please specify. 5)Energy of 2J with (wavelength of 1349nm) delivered to a spot of 3.5mm diam gives an energy of 208mJ per sq mm, which is very high indeed and likely to cause burns even in unmarked skin. Is there anything amiss or wrong in the method section? 6)The authors do not make it clear whether the laser stimulus was delivered with the aim of assessing a perception threshold or for evoked potentials. 7)There is no attempt to correlate the stimulus with perception. Did the authors find any difference between marked and unmarked areas as to perception to a given stimulus? I am aware that this is not within the aim of the paper, but it might be a useful information Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "The effect of repeated laser stimuli to ink-marked skin on skin temperature—recommendations for a safe experimental protocol in humans (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1577v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Matija Milanic ·
Oct 31, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The study addresses the problem of inducing skin damage by a Nd:YAP laser during stimulation of nociceptive neurons. To obtain precise data about spatial processing of noxious input marking the skin with a dark ink is commonly applied. However, the ink-marked skin is more susceptible to injury by laser due to increased absorption in the ink. The authors proposed a protocol consisting of exclusion criteria, an upper limit for pulse laser energy, a relaxation time between stimulation blocks, and small markings compared to irradiation area. By testing the protocol on 28 volunteers, it was demonstrated that the Nd:YAP laser can be used repeatedly over the ink-marked area without inducing skin damage. An important problem for performing clinical experiments was considered in the present manuscript, i.e. participant/patient safety. This study results could help designing future experiments in the field. The text is well written and comprehensible.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
There are a few comments about the experiment, which should be considered by the authors: -Delayed effects were not considered or presented. Erythema, hypo /hyperpigmentosis can appear after few hours or days. -Measured surface temperatures does not necessary correlate with heat deposition/temperature rises in tissues. In case of strong absorbers deeper in a tissue, a significant temperature rise in the absorber area can result in moderate or even low surface temperature rise. For example, experimentally measured temperature depth profiles induced by a Nd:YAP laser in human skin are presented in Milanic et al., Energy deposition profile in human skin upon irradiation with a 1,342<U+2009>nm Nd:YAP laser, Las. Surg. Med. 45(1), 2013 -From the description in the Methods section it is not clear how the skin temperature rise was measured (ls. 90-92). Was the amplitude or a certain time average measured? Or as mentioned in the Limitations subsection after the stimuli? If the latter is true, was image always taken at the same time interval after the stimuli? -The skin types, age, and sex of the participants were not reported. The study findings can significantly depend on these parameters. -The pain levels were mentioned in the Participants subsection (l.56) without providing a reference. -The authors do not explain why the separations used in the dots pattern were selected (ls. 65-67). Are there any physiological or thermodynamic reasons for the choice? -The pulse length should be reported in the Stimuli subsection (ls.71-73). The pulse length significantly affects heat deposition in skin. -The authors state that the upper limit exposure of 2 J was determined by a pilot experiment performed on two volunteers (ls. 80-83). It is important to present important information about the volunteers, e.g. age, sex, and skin type. -The authors specify the pause lengths between subsequent stimuli and blocks (ls.83-88) without providing a reasonable explanation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The statistical analysis of the reported results was suitable. However, the following comments should be considered by the authors to improve the results and discussion part of the manuscript: -It is not necessary to repeat the number of participants (ls.105-106). -A table showing information (skin type, age, sex) and the study results (pulse energy, pain level, side effects, temperature rise, etc.) should be presented. -A figure showing the most important findings of the study would significantly help readers to understand them.
Comments for the author
-What was the motivation for including two groups of volunteers: one with and one without chronic pain? What is the significance of the results obtained for these two groups? Neither the motivation nor the results explanations are clear from the text. -Authors should explain why dominantly black colour is used to draw dots. Would it be possible to use other markers with lower absorption of 1340 nm light? It is not uncommon in the laser medicine to use white markers which absorb only a small portion of laser pulse energy. Cite this review as
Milanic M ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "The effect of repeated laser stimuli to ink-marked skin on skin temperature—recommendations for a safe experimental protocol in humans (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1577v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 2, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
