Review History for Trophic ecology of sea urchins in coral-rocky reef systems, Ecuador [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Trophic ecology of sea urchins in coral-rocky reef systems, Ecuador To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 10th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 9th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on December 14th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 16th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Fabiano Thompson
·
Dec 16, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Congratulations for the accepted MS.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 14, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Fabiano Thompson
·
Oct 9, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Authors: Consider the inconsistencies, particularly the one raised by ref#2.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 2, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The study is original and brings relevant results, figures have good quality, but the text must be improved, especially the sessions “materials and methods”, “results” and “discussion”. The authors may improve the manuscript following a sequence of clear ideas, avoiding long sentences, avoiding mixing subjects, writing short and objective sentences. It was difficult to evaluate the scientific contribution because the structure of the text has low quality and is not clear. I suggested changes throughout the text and I highlighted parts which most need revision, but I strongly recommend a professional revision from a native speaker of English. The quality of the text must defintely be improved before publication. There is an error in Table 3 in the values of nitrogen. Raw data available in excel were not shown in the results and were not properly discussed.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
"No Comments"
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
"No Comments"
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Trophic ecology of sea urchins in coral-rocky reef systems, Ecuador (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1578v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 9, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I believe the paper addresses a current gap regarding trophic relationships of sea urchins from Ecuador. I suggest several changes in the introduction and material and methods sections. Some relevant data are missing and this problem should be considered by the authors. After the inclusion of these new data, the discussion should also be improved. Overall, after these modifications the paper will be ready for publication. More details can be seen on the attached file.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
With the C/N ratio, it will be possible to determine if lipids extraction is relevant or not to the current dataset. Also, a statement regarding what was defined in this paper (lines 115-117) do not correspond to the methods chosen. More details in the attached document. Please check this incoherence.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
It's important that the authors provide C/N ratio and metric data. This will improve the paper and the understanding of the readers. Please rewrite the last paragraph from your introduction, since you didn't determine trophic levels. A trophic level calculation includes an enrichment factor and a baseline, going beyond a mean 15N isotope value for a species (please check Rasmussen, 2001 - Limnl. Oceanogr. 46(8), 2061-2066; or Fisket al, 2001 - Environ. Sci. Technol. 35, 732-738 for details). Finally, rewrite your final statements in the discussion based on your original hypothesis.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Please include the C/N ratio and the metric data. They're very important to your paper. Also, discuss, or make it clear, the possible contribution of different preys (not only algae) to the feeding of the sea urchins investigated. Explore if the absence of such preys limit or not your findings. I think it would be interesting to calculate the trophic levels and, finally, rewrite your discussion in light of these data. I believe these modifications will improve your paper. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Trophic ecology of sea urchins in coral-rocky reef systems, Ecuador (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1578v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 10, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
