Review History for Phylogenetic and morphologic evidence confirm the presence of a new montane cloud forest associated bird species in Mexico, the Mountain Elaenia (Elaenia frantzii; Aves: Passeriformes: Tyrannidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Phylogenetic and morphologic evidence confirm the presence of a new montane cloud forest associated bird species in Mexico, the Mountain Elaenia ( Elaenia frantzii ; Aves: Passeriformes: Tyrannidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 10th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 8th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on December 22nd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 23rd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michael Wink
·
Dec 23, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors Thank you for submitting your revision which covers the queries of the reviewers. Therefore, we accept your manuscript for publication. Thank you for submitting your ms to our journal. Regards Michael Wink Editor
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 22, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Wink
·
Dec 8, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors Thank you for submitting your manuscript to our journal. As you see our reviewers suggest a revision of your ms. If you are willing to do so, we would be happy to reconsider your revised manuscript. Michael Wink
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 2, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper entitled “Phylogenetic and morphologic evidence confirm the presence of a new montane cloud forest associated bird species in Mexico, the Mountain Elaenia (Elaenia frantzii; Aves: Passeriformes: Tyrannidae)” is interesting, straightforward, well written and deserves to be published in the PeerJ.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
In particular, I value that the authors used different sources of evidence for their record.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors collected two birds and compared with other museum skins confirming morphologically the identity of the species. They also sequenced the mtDNA and show the position of the samples in the molecular phylogeny showing that they are grouped within the clade E. frantzii. Finally, they modelled the potential habitat that the species could occupy showing that the environment of the new record where the birds were collected is suitable for the presence of the species. So there is no doubt that the records are scientifically valid and belong to the species Elaenia frantzii.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
One thing I think is needed is to add in the map the northernmost record of E. frantzii (the audio recording from northeastern, Utah, USA, deposited in VertNet), even if it is a non-breeding population; also, its biogeographical importance should be briefly discussed. Line 39 ….”open humid”.... What do you mean by open humid forest? Please give more detailed characterization of this vegetation type. Line 72 Please cite Figure 3 Line 87 Information about authorizations to collect and to do field work should go on the ACKS. Line 90 Provide full name of the institutions, followed by the acronyms. Line 160 …. The record of E. frantzii in the USA should be added in the map and its biogeographical importance discussed. Line 170 after “90.3913987°W, WGS84, Cobán, Departamento Alta Verapaz, Guatemala (Cahill, 2013)” cite Figure 3. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Phylogenetic and morphologic evidence confirm the presence of a new montane cloud forest associated bird species in Mexico, the Mountain Elaenia (Elaenia frantzii; Aves: Passeriformes: Tyrannidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1598v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 3, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors invested a lot of effort to prove that the range of Elaenia frantzii extends as far north as southern Mexico. The technical work has been performed according to standard and the paper is well written. Minor issues: 33: New World flycatcher 44 Mexico, 52 tyrant flycatcher 64-72 remove parentheses from taxon authors as all taxa were described in Elaenia, add author for ultima 113 and more often: separate "°C" from preceding number by blank 130 see 44 140, 146, 148: use command citation() in R for correct referencing of the software (packages) 152 ten model replicates 155 ESRI 164 vs. 168: use consistent format for coordinates, I recommend "d° m' s" W" 188 cf. 113 205 ten replicates fig2: do not italicize "New record" fig3: italicize "Elaenia frantzii" tab1: round values to 2 or 3 decimal places only Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Phylogenetic and morphologic evidence confirm the presence of a new montane cloud forest associated bird species in Mexico, the Mountain Elaenia (Elaenia frantzii; Aves: Passeriformes: Tyrannidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1598v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 10, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
