Review History for Protective effects of the extracts of Barringtonia racemosa shoots against oxidative damage in HepG2 cells [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Protective effects of the extracts of Barringtonia racemosa shoots against oxidative damage in HepG2 cells To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 7th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 3rd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on January 5th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 5th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alberto Davalos
·
Jan 5, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript is acceptable in its present form.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 5, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alberto Davalos
·
Nov 3, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
In addition to the comments of the 2 reviewers, I have also reviewed the manuscript (see comments below) and these comments should also be considered if submission of a revised manuscript is made. The manuscript describes the protective effects of Barrigntonia racemosa against induced oxidative damage in HepG2 cells. Through all the manuscript the authors describe that this aqueous plant extract exert a clear biological effect in vitro against oxidative damage in a cell system. Although the manuscript is well conducted and clearly written, the results are expected. Most of the effects showed here have been previously described for most of the pure polyphenols presented in this plant extracts, which clearly reduce the novelty of their findings. Main comment: How do the authors explain the variability in response to FRAP analysis (Figure 3A-C)? This reviewer understand that the extract can have a maximum effect at 1 ug/mL, but how is possible that from that concentration the antioxidant effect varies randomly? Was all the range of concentrations performed at the same time? Please explain. Minor comments: P8L167 please indicate the plate format used P9L195please indicate the plate format used Synergic effect of polyphenols have been previously described in the literature, unless it is experimentally shown in your results please reduce the tone by using “might” or “could” to point this possibility (P13L289).
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 15, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article fullfills the standards required. The work is clearly written and fits into the broader field of knowledge. Just some minor revisions: Page 1, Line 70 : Consider changing the phrase to "Hepatocellular carcinoma cells, HepG2, are a well established cell line" Page 1, Line 72: Phenolic acids and flavonoids from plants are metabolised by the liver after absorption, mainly, in the small intestine.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The article fullfills the standards required. The primary research is original and fits within the scope of the journal. Methodology seems correct and reproducible.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The article fullfills the standards required. Data seems solid and statistically correct. Conclusions are appropriately stated, connected to the original question investigated, and are limited to those supported by the results.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Protective effects of the extracts of Barringtonia racemosa shoots against oxidative damage in HepG2 cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1628v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 27, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Title: Concise and reflect the content of the article. Suggestions: The authors work with extracts and should be reflected in the title. Abstract: It is brief and describes clearly the purpose of the work and the major results. Introduction: This section is clear and well organised. Reflect the importance of using natural antioxidants to balance the oxidative stress to avoid aging and degenerative diseases. Specific improvements: -L57 – Exogenous and endogenous antioxidants can limit or reduce the oxidative stress but no its elimination. Please, revise this paragraph. Tables and figures: Comments and corrections: Figure2. These data could be more conclusive represented in a table where it will be easily to show the sample concentrations and the % of viability. References: The reference section is appropriate and updated. Corrections: -L430 – Correct the surname of the author: D’Archivio -L474 – This reference does not appear in the main manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Material and methods: Properly describes the methodology used. Comments and corrections: -L84 – Please, insert the nationality of the supply company -L99 – Why do the authors subject the lyophilised extracts to acid hydrolysis? Please, explain it in this section. Did the authors analyse the samples without previous hydrolysis? The hydrolysis could degrade some polyphenols present in the extracts and the authors do not identify them but they are present in the in vitro assay. -L101 – 90ºC -L107 – 30ºC -L110 – Please, substitute diode array detector for DAD. -L110 – Detection at 280 nm is most commonly used for phenolics acids, although monitoring at 254 and 320 nm can provide more information about other polyphenols presents in the samples. Why do the authors use only the 280 nm wavelength? -L127 – 37ºC -L135 – MTT reagent was dissolve in? -L146 – Why do the authors use these concentrations of gallic acid? No quantification of phenolic compounds in the samples was done. -L150 – 37ºC -L151 – Please, insert the absorbance reader specifications. -L163 – Please, specify the expression of the results. -L167 – Please, indicate the format of plate used for to seed the cells. -L174 - Please, specify the expression of the results. -L187 – 25 N -L188 - 37ºC -L195 - Please, indicate the format of plate used for to seed the cells.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Results and discussion: The presentation of the results and the discussion is clear, well-structured and follows a logical sequence.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
PeerJ Manuscript Number: Peerj-6893 Title: “Protective effects of Barringtonia racemosa shoots against oxidative damage in HepG2 cells” Author (s): Kin Weng Kong, Sarni Mat-Junit, Norhaniza Aminudin, Fouad Abdulrahman Hassan, Amin Ismail, Azlina Abdul-Aziz General comments The search for naturally occurring compounds with beneficial health effects that can be used as potential food ingredients has a great interest. Therefore, the researches trying to characterize the potential active compounds from natural source and to associate some beneficial effects (antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antitumor, antibacterial, etc) are very promising. This paper attempts to characterize natural plant extracts and associate them with certain beneficial properties such as its potential antioxidant capacity. The authors have recently studied the antioxidant activities of Barringtonia racemosa shoots (Kong et al., 2012 and 2014) as well as other authors (Razab et al., 2010), but in this novel work, the authors try to proof the antioxidant activity in vitro using human cells. Therefore, the objective addressed in the present article can be considered of great interest and meets the requirements for scientific publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Protective effects of the extracts of Barringtonia racemosa shoots against oxidative damage in HepG2 cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1628v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 7, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
