Review History for The Tibetan medicine Zuotai influences clock gene expression in the liver of mice [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The Tibetan medicine Zuotai influences clock gene expression in the liver of mice To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 4th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 9th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on December 21st, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on January 6th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 6th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Joao Rocha
·
Jan 6, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr Liu, thank you for the revision. I am glad to accept the revised version of your manuscript.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 6, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Joao Rocha
·
Dec 30, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Although part of the criticisms of the reviewers were answered by the authors, they have not properly addressed two questions raised by the reviewers. I, particularly, concur with the reviews about the toxicity. In addition, the statistic done by the authors was not the one adequate to the problem. One is the question of toxicity and the other is the statistical analysis used. Indeed, the major problem with the revised version is that the authors are not highlighting the potential toxicity of the use of the preparation used to intoxicated the rats. The fact that pattern of gene expression changed is a clear indication of potential toxicity (or even of toxicity). Thus, without clearly indicating the potential toxicological effects of the preparation and, in particular of cinnabar, the paper cannot be accepted. This can give the erroneous impression that the preparation is safe and, from a conservative point of view of toxicology (that any departure from the normal is potentially toxic) the results indicate that it is not safe. In fact, any deviation of a "normal condition" (here the control group gene expression)" can be an important indication of toxicity. Authors have to change the affirmation in the conclusion that the changes in the pattern of gene expression may be of pharmacological-therapeutic significance. Here, without the support of solid experimental evidence that safe medicines can exert their therapeutic effects by changing the expression of clock genes, the supposition made by the authors are very speculative. Thus, in abstract, introduction and discussion, authors have to clearly indicate and cite literature (introduction and discussion) indicating the toxicity of cinnabar or preparations having it. For instance (and this is only a small list selected from the literature), Kang-Yum, E., & Oransky, S. H. (1992). Chinese patent medicine as a potential source of mercury poisoning. Veterinary and human toxicology, 34(3), 235-238. Chuu, J. J., Liu, S. H., & Lin-Shiau, S. Y. (2001). Effects of methyl mercury, mercuric sulfide and cinnabar on active avoidance responses, Na+/K+-ATPase activities and tissue mercury contents in rats. Proceedings of the National Science Council, Republic of China. Part B, Life sciences, 25(2), 128-136. Seok, J., Park, K. Y., Li, K., Kim, B. J., Shim, J. H., Seo, S. J., ... & Hong, C. K. (2015). Squamous Cell Carcinoma and Multiple Bowen's Disease in a Patient with a History of Consumption of Traditional Chinese Herbal Balls. Case reports in dermatology, 7(2), 151-155. Espinoza, E. O., Mann, M. J., & Bleasdell, B. (1995). Arsenic and mercury in traditional Chinese herbal balls. New England Journal of Medicine, 333(12), 803-804. Chun-Fa Huang, Chuan-Jen Hsu, Shing-Hwa Liu, and Shoei-Yn Lin-Shiau, “Exposure to Low Dose of Cinnabar (a Naturally Occurring Mercuric Sulfide (HgS)) Caused Neurotoxicological Effects in Offspring Mice,” Journal of Biomedicine and Biotechnology, vol. 2012, Article ID 254582, 12 pages, 2012. doi:10.1155/2012/254582 Wei L, Liao P, Wu H, Li X, Pei F, Li W, Wu Y. Toxicological effects of cinnabar in rats by NMR-based metabolic profiling of urine and serum. Toxicology and applied pharmacology. 2008 Mar 15;227(3):417-29. Yu WH, Zhang N, Qi JF, Sun C, Wang YH, Lin M. Arsenic and Mercury Containing Traditional Chinese Medicine (Realgar and Cinnabar) Strongly Inhibit Organic Anion Transporters, Oat1 and Oat3, In Vivo in Mice. BioMed Research International. 2015 Dec 16;2015. Emslie SD, Brasso R, Patterson WP, Valera AC, McKenzie A, Silva AM, Gleason JD, Blum JD. Chronic mercury exposure in Late Neolithic/Chalcolithic populations in Portugal from the cultural use of cinnabar. Scientific reports. 2015;5. The list is a random sample made and does not reflect all the studies presented. The statement that at therapeutic doses "the preparation containing cinnabar" is non-toxic can be misleading, because living cells do not need Hg and even small doses of Hg can be toxic in long-term exposure. Thus, without warning the readers about the potential toxicity of mercury, the study is biased, particularly, in view that even the "supposed safe cinnabar's containing preparations" can be misused. A second critical point is that authors have not performed an adequate statistical test. As stated by the authors, the profile or the pattern of expression, can be more indicative than isolated comparisons. However, to state that one pattern of expression is different from the other, the authors must perform a TWO-WAY ANOVA (two treatments x times of sampling). A significant treatment x time interaction will indicate whether or not the treatment changed the pattern of gene expression.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 21, 2015
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joao Rocha
·
Dec 9, 2015
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Dr Liu, Find attached the comments about your manuscript. The reviewers have raised several important points to be considered by you. In particular, after reading the manuscript, I also recommend you to include both in abstract, introduction and discussion aspects related to the potential toxicity of the preparation. The fact that the preparation is used in folk medicine does not guarantee its safety and the presence of Hg (and other toxic metals) in the preparation is worrying.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Minor Points 1. The author should present some reference in the description of real-time RT-PCR analysis, as well describe with more detail the technique. 2. In the results section some information about the gene mentioned should be added. 3. Language mistakes should be revised.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Major points 1. The project being presented here is quite confusing and more convincing way to present the issue is required.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Major points 2. The authors could describe the statistical analysis used to compare the results from control animals and animals treated with Zuotai. For instance, in the Figure 1, the author have to show the p value and statistical test that was used to compare the gene expression of Clock in the different periods in the different groups. 3. What changes in the metabolism and other parameters could be expected after the decreased in the circadian oscillation of Clock, Npas2, Bma11 liver expression induced by Zuotai treatment? 4. The authors should discuss more about the possible effects caused by the changes induced by Zuotai treatment in the expression of these different genes. 5. Some hormonal analysis in the mice’s plasma should be done, such as melatonin and corticosterone, in attempt to delve the mechanisms involved in the effects in gene expression induced by Zuotai treatment. 6.Its not clear that these alterations caused by the treatment are related to toxicological or therapeutics effects. The authors should clarify this point in the discussion section.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Synopsis This is an interesting paper regarding the impact of Tibetan medicine Zuotai on liver biological clock in mice. The main finding is that Zuotai treatment modulates the expression of clock genes. My comments Some aspects need to be clarified. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The Tibetan medicine Zuotai influences clock gene expression in the liver of mice (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1632v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Letícia Galant ·
Dec 8, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
There are text boxes on the text, it must be removed. Some phrases are written in a confusing way and with many repeated words. some phrases seem to have no connection with the next sentence of paragraph.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
It must perform an appropriate statistical test in the samples, since the average of the standard errors was very high, and thus, we can not trust these results.
Comments for the author
No Comments Cite this review as
Galant L ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "The Tibetan medicine Zuotai influences clock gene expression in the liver of mice (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1632v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 4, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
