Review History for Molecular characterisation of the Chlamydia pecorum plasmid from porcine, ovine, bovine, and koala strains indicates plasmid-strain co-evolution [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Molecular characterisation of the Chlamydia pecorum plasmid from porcine, ovine, bovine, and koala strains indicates plasmid-strain co-evolution To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 2nd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 23rd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on January 13th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 14th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Nicola Decaro
·
Jan 14, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised manuscript is now suitable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 13, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Nicola Decaro
·
Dec 23, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear corresponding author, Both reviewers raised minor points that should be addressed before final acceptance of your manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 20, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Unfortunately, I was not able to find the legends of supplementary figures in the manuscript. That made it difficult to understand and evaluate the manuscript itself. So, please indicate me the legends of supplementary figures. Line 210-222: I can't evaluate this paragraph without the legend of Figure S2. Line 266-267: I can't find any tandem repeats in Figure S1 and S2A. Is it indicated in the legend? Line 270-272: I can't find a single insertion of 1 bp in Figure S2A. Is it indicated in the legend? Line 276-277: Figure 2B -> Figure S2B? Line 253-259: I understand SA and Vic koala strains are "SaK09Ure, SaK84Ure" and VicR6UGT, respectively. However, I think there is no specific information about QLD and NSW koala strains in the manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Line 238-243: Actually, both pCpecs and C. pecorum strains are divided into two major clades. However, as far as I referred the study regarding the co-evolutional relationship between plasmids and chromosomes of C. trachomatis (Seth-Smith et al., 2009), I don't think pCpec phylogeny is congruent with C. pecorum MLST phylogeny. Please clarify my reservation.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In the latest study of these authors (Jelocnik et al., 2015b), they identified four plasmids in the genomes of a swine and three koala Chlamydia pecorum isolates. That was the first report regarding plasmid of C. pecorum, resulting pCpec. In this study, they additionally identified 17 novel pCpecs of C. pecorum from a variety of hosts by bioinformatic and PCR-based approaches. They carried out phylogenetic analysis of the 21 pCpecs and suggested that co-evolution of pCpecs with their host, C. pecorum. I think that this may be an important step forward to understand the epidemiology of C. pecorum in livestock and koala. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Molecular characterisation of the Chlamydia pecorum plasmid from porcine, ovine, bovine, and koala strains indicates plasmid-strain co-evolution (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1661v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Rodolakis Annie ·
Dec 22, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
From previously sequenced Chlamydia pecorum genomes and by using a PCR specific of C pecorum plasmid, the authors identified 21 plasmids from bovine, koala, ovine, and porcine strains and characterized their genetic structure and their phylogenetic relationship. This short note is clear, concise and well written
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The scientific content of this article is stimulating. The aim of the work is clearly specified, the used methods are adapted to this objective
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The conclusions are pertinent. However the discussion on the 3 CDS (CDS4, CD5, CDS6) associated with chlamydial-specific virulence is a little too short. It would be interesting to compare them depending on whether they come from strains isolated from animals with or without clinical signs.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Very nice work! Cite this review as
Annie R ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Molecular characterisation of the Chlamydia pecorum plasmid from porcine, ovine, bovine, and koala strains indicates plasmid-strain co-evolution (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1661v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 2, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
