Review History for The use and evaluation of self-regulation techniques can predict health goal attainment in adults: an explorative study [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The use and evaluation of self-regulation techniques can predict health goal attainment in adults: an explorative study To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 10th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 8th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on January 15th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 17th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Bob Patton
·
Jan 17, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your resubmitted paper. You have clearly described how you have addressed the concerns raised by the reviewers. I am pleased to accept your paper for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 15, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Bob Patton
·
Dec 8, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please ensure your resubmission is thoroughly proofread. Your discussion should also address the impact at one month vs. longer follow-up, Both reviewers have made a number of suggestions to enhance the paper and you should address each of these.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 30, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
On page 4, line 66, the authors may consider describing some of these “other” interventions. The self-regulation techniques mentioned cover a lot of ground and it would help the reader to know what other interventions look like. The paper could use another look for grammar. There are a few places where the verb tense is confusing (notably in the introduction)
Experimental design
label_ed_1
It would be useful to the reader to have more information about the prior research on similar interventions and to point out the novelty of the measures used here (if that is the case). Some meta-analyses are mentioned in the introduction, but it’s never spelled out precisely where this prior work falls short or what remaining issues motivated this study. Is it that no prior work has examined the feasibility of people’s strategies for goal attainment? Or is that that no one has examined the quality of implementation intentions?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Please list exact p-values. In the action planning section, it is stated that the motivational value of the action plan was borderline significant but the p-value is listed as less than 0.05. By my count there are as many as 15 predictors in the regression model. I wouldn’t put much stock in interpreting non-significant effects (between p>0.05 and p<0.01) with that many possible tests. Is it the case that if an effect occurred at T2 but was not reported for T3 then that effect was specific only to T2? If that is the case, then it seems that the only predictor of goal attainment at one-month (T3) is in the PA group and shows that making fewer implementations intentions is a better predictor of goal attainment than making more implementations intentions. This would undermine most of the conclusions in the discussion and suggest that an intervention focused only on developing a few implementation intentions is the one that would work best for long term goal attainment in the PA domain but not in the food domain. In fact, it appears nothing predicts goal attainment in the food domain at one-month other than not stating new health goals at T2. From this perspective, the intervention has only minimal effects on long-term/one-month goal attainment and I recommend the authors rework their discussion to address this.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The use and evaluation of self-regulation techniques can predict health goal attainment in adults: an explorative study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1666v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Ashley Stewart PhD ·
Dec 7, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
see general comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
consider starting new paragraph at line 62 can you mention general characteristics about your population sample in your text and perhaps if you believe this affected your findings in any way can you speak to the attrition in the study *tracking has also been shown as an important self-regulation technique; can you speak to how participants were informed or instructed on tracking their health behaviors. and if not, can you explain the exclusion of this technique *it seems there were 3 points of tailored feedback, but that these did not change in any way after the initial sign up? can you clarify if this is the case. if so, can you expand on how more frequent and/or specific feedback could affect perceived motivation and help with formulation of coping strategies. *perhaps no one study has evaluated optimal frequency & timing of follow-up modules-however, there are numerous studies with varying follow-up methods existing in the literature. this may be helpful in exploring. *the last two points are worth considering to prevent underestimation of tracking & tailored feedback (type/form & frequency) on action plan execution, coping strategy formulation, and overall goal attainment. Cite this review as
Stewart PhD A ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "The use and evaluation of self-regulation techniques can predict health goal attainment in adults: an explorative study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1666v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 10, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
