Review History for Identification of fibrillogenic regions in human triosephosphate isomerase [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Identification of fibrillogenic regions in human triosephosphate isomerase To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 21st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 8th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on January 19th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 20th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Jan 20, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the attentive consideration of the reviewers' comments and for the careful revision of the manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 19, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Dec 8, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please address critical issues raised by the reviewers and revise the manuscript accordingly.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 30, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Basic structure of the article is fine. There are a few grammatical errors.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Overall the experimental design is ok but there are some problems. TEM images are of poor quality due to overstaining and fairly low magnification. It is especially important in Fig. 1 b/c it is difficult to tell the shape of the aggregates there. There is also a problem with Fig. 2B as dots in the dot blot look strange. Also, there isn’t enough data on aggregation of the protein in the absence of urea. While FTIR of the aggregates is useful, perhaps kinetic analysis (e.g. by static or dynamic light scattering) could show what the kinetics of the process is. I also think the authors need to do a better job explaining the reason for using the proteolytic digest of the protein for aggregation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Other than poor quality TEM images, the finding appear to be valid.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Identification of fibrillogenic regions in human triosephosphate isomerase (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1676v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 7, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This article “Identification of fibrillogenic regions in human triosephosphate isomerase (TPI)” by Carcamo-Noriega and Saab-Rincon aims to locate the fibrillation inducing regions in TPI. I have two main points that I want to mention 1)The use of HEWL in figure1 masks the real data of TPI aggregation, there appears to be an elongation and plateau phase in TPI curve although of lower intensity. There is no reason ThT fluorescence of TPI aggregation should match with HEWL fluorescence neither is there any comparison. Re-plotting the TPI data will therefore change the whole context and reference. 2)In figure6 authors show hydrolyzed product before aggregation (6A lane 2) and after aggregation (6D lane2) and conclude the ~3kDa fragment in 6D constitutes fibrils. But we don’t see this fragment in the starting material (6A), there are only higher fragments. On the contrary, we see shades of higher fragments in 6D. Further, since they started from a mixture of fragments how do authors conclude the 3kDa is not a mixture or various fragment rather than strand b3. Fibrillation of as small as hexa-peptides has been reported widely in literature. 3) minor comment - language, typographical mistakes. I would suggest a major revision.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Please see basic reporting section
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Please see basic reporting section
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Please see basic reporting section Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Identification of fibrillogenic regions in human triosephosphate isomerase (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1676v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 21, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
