Review History for Internal seed dispersal by parrots: an overview of a neglected mutualism [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Internal seed dispersal by parrots: an overview of a neglected mutualism To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 10th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 14th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on January 18th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 23rd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michael Wink
·
Jan 23, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors thank you for revising your manuscript. Therefore, we can accept your ms by now. Regards Michael Wink
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 18, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Wink
·
Jan 14, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors thank you for submitting your ms to our journal. We have received 3 reviews. We would encourage you to revise your ms according to the suggestions of the reviewers. Kind regards Michael Wink Editor
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 15, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Line 26: for most Psittaciformes species the asseveration of “high densities… in many… ecosystems” is no longer valid. It is valid for some of them but not for “many”. Thus, I would not add this comment as the first sentence of the abstract. It’ll generate a false impression among non-specialist readers. Line 28: I would discourage the use of terms like “Endozoochorous” and other technical words in the abstract. The abstract should also aim to non-specialist readers. Besides, these words are already mentioned in the Keywords, what is the important thing regarding search machines. Abstract: I would suggest not giving values (=numbers) in the abstract. Instead, I would suggest expressing the main results with words easily understandable to all readers. Then, your work will have more chances to be read. Lines 102-103, 109: I suggest using “exploratory” but not “preliminary”. Idem in other paragraphs. Introduction: Tella et al. (2015) “Parrots as overlooked seed dispersers” should be mentioned in this section. Table 1, caption: it needs to be rewritten. It starts with “Presence of intact seeds”, when the authors also give data on non-seed items. Thus, I would suggest starting with a more general description. Also, what the authors exactly mean by “Foraging observations”. Were these items found in the feces or were the birds observed feeding on these items? The table should be fully understandable without reading the text. Table 1: I think it’ll be better “Unindentified Asteraceae”, without brackets. Fig. 1, caption, “note the red colour of the faecal material corresponding to feeding on P. pachycladus fruits”: honestly, I cannot see this. I think one cannot tell looking only at the picture in its present resolution. Without providing additional proof, this sentence is pure speculation. Lines 158-164: I do not see the point of this paragraph. It is common practice to search the literature at the time of writing a MS. The authors do not carry any literature statistical analyses. They use it in the usual way for the Intro and Discussion. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Internal seed dispersal by parrots: an overview of a neglected mutualism (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1688v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 4, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript describes a study of the extent to which parrots act as seed dispersers, by examining the number of seeds present in faeces collected opportunistically across a number of neotropical parrot species. The manuscript presents these data alongside a review of the literature on the role of parrots as seed dispersers. Statistical tests identify differences in observed proportion of seeds and some morphometrics taken from them. For faeces samples collected from one parrot species the authors test the viability of the seeds using two different methods. The authors then relate the results to literature reviewed. The analyses appear to be appropriate given the data and the conclusions drawn do not misinterpret the results.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The study appears to be opportunistic in terms of collection of faeces samples. The choice of the parrot species for the seed viability tests (lines 150-156) seems to be based on the fact that this species yielded the largest sample size compared to the other species included in the study; this is satisfactory but a clear justification needs to be included. The methods regarding the literature review do not have any details on what key words were used, or numbers of studies identified. I would recommend that the authors include this information in order that others may replicate their work in the future.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings appear to be valid, with the caveat that the sampling strategy for the collection of faeces samples was largely opportunistic.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall, this study adds to the existing literature on parrot seed dispersal and the accompanying review of the existing literature adds value. A number of minor suggested edits are below; Line 59: delete ‘overwhelming’ Line 60: ‘continuously feeding back and merging’ – this is confusing. Rephrase. The sentence is also too long. Line 66: how can demography be enhanced? – rephrase. Line 72: ‘the major among’ – does not make sense. Correct. Line 89: ‘This [what?] is striking’. Line 97: ‘could be probed widespread’ – doesn’t make sense. Rephrase. Line 99: ‘could be presumed crucial’ - doesn’t make sense. Rephrase. Line 110: ‘in order to call attention on’ – change to read ‘in order to draw attention to’ Line 199: Why not spell out what proportion exactly? Line 231: delete ‘clearly’ Line 284: change to ‘Sample size of those species for which seeds were viable’ Line 299: what are genetic linkers? – Rephrase. Line 309: Delete ‘showing’ Line 310 delete ‘assumed’ and replace with ‘regarded’ Line 317: Delete ‘urgent’. Fig 2: Legend needs to spell out what the red and blue circles relate to. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Internal seed dispersal by parrots: an overview of a neglected mutualism (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1688v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Simon Tollington ·
Jan 12, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
I have annotated the attached pdf document with my suggested edits to the manuscript text.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
This paper highlights an important knowledge gap with an opportunistic experimental approach which the authors are transparent about. Whilst not being a comprehensive or systematic experiment the findings are important.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
I agree with the authors that importance of parrots as endozoochorous dispersers has been under-appreciated and under studied. Therefore this is an important demonstration and call for further research.
Comments for the author
The aims and scope of PeerJ state that it does not accept literature reviews, whilst this paper is not 100% review it does contain a significant review proportion. Whether this is too much is a decision for the Editor. What I would at least recommend is that the title is amended; the word 'overview' in the title suggests a review. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Tollington S ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "Internal seed dispersal by parrots: an overview of a neglected mutualism (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1688v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 10, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
