Review History for Behavioral niche partitioning in a sympatric tiger beetle assemblage and implications for the endangered Salt Creek tiger beetle [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Behavioral niche partitioning in a sympatric tiger beetle assemblage and implications for the endangered Salt Creek tiger beetle To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 23rd, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 23rd, 2013. The first revision was submitted on August 25th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 31st, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michael Somers
·
Aug 31, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the rvision. The MSreads well.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 25, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Somers
·
Aug 23, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have read the MS and find it well written and almost ready for acceptance. Please consider the minor issues as given by the referees.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 15, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This manuscript by Higley and Brosius is well written and presents a well- designed study of a rare tiger beetle that has important implications for its conservation. The introduction presents the relevant literature and an effective background to this study. The data presented and the statistical analysis of these behaviors seems appropriate in providing valid evidence of difference among species.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusion that these determined differences in behavior can reduce competition for food seems well supported and justified. The different behaviors of C. n. lincolniana provide a valid insight to its adaptation to the saline habitats where it is found, and can inform management by protecting habitat with seeps and other features it requires
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I would offer an alternate or complementary explanation for the foraging microhabitat of togata. It is significantly smaller than the other species, with long legs and consequently can both extend higher above the substrate where it is slightly cooler and would have reduced heat loading and quicker cooling. In tiger beetles (and other insects) smaller body size can result is more effective behavioral thermoregulation that species with larger body size, thus allowing for foraging on warmer substrates or during the warmer parts of the day (Pearson and Vogler). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Behavioral niche partitioning in a sympatric tiger beetle assemblage and implications for the endangered Salt Creek tiger beetle (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.169v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 26, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors introduce a very complex set of interactions in an understandable context of ecology and conservation. The English is solid with a minimum of unnecessary jargon. A simple but significant change should be made in lines 59 and 61. The endangered tiger beetle is not an endangered species. It is an endangered population or recognized subspecies. There are a few typos throughout (e.g., line 339 "on" should be inserted between reliance and shallow).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors successfully integrate a complex set of interactions and test them convincingly to accomplish both goals of ecology and conservation. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Behavioral niche partitioning in a sympatric tiger beetle assemblage and implications for the endangered Salt Creek tiger beetle (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.169v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 23, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
