Review History for Can macroalgae provide promising anti-tumoral compounds? A closer look at Cystoseira tamariscifolia as a source for antioxidant and anti-hepatocarcinoma compounds [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Can macroalgae provide promising anti-tumoral compounds? A closer look at Cystoseira tamariscifolia as a source for antioxidant and anti-hepatocarcinoma compounds To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 23rd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 28th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on January 26th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 28th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Jan 28, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been improved and is now accepted.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 26, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Dec 28, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please, consider all the suggestions of the reviewers, in the revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 22, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript investigated antioxidant effect and anti-tumoral of the extracts and isolated compound. It contains some new data, but, in the present form is not acceptable for publication.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Major revision : •Detection of apoptosis, Line 208, need to be specify what the compounds were used. •Magnification should be mentioned in any relevant method as well as figure legend. •No result of the positive control in the apoptosis induction study. •The concentration used in both apoptosis induction studied were quite high. And % apoptosis from flow cytometry was relative low compared to DAPI staining. How would the author address this?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
•Lack of discussion information about association of antioxidant, cytotoxic and apoptosis induction. •The necrosis cell death should be discussed because relatively high dose and longer period of time were used in the study where cells were harshly subjected to be death.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Minor revision : •Introduction section, Line 85, the authors have to use more relevant cited reference for the sentence "The anti-proliferative potential was screened on human hepatocellular carcinoma HepG2 cells, a cell line known to be recalcitrant to cytotoxic drugs (Liu et al., 2010)." Therefore, the authors need to check and cite proper references throughout the text. •Some typo, format and correction throughout the manuscript such as reference section need to be correct. For example reference of Lamia Mhadhebi, line 594. •Abbreviation can be used after the full name is provided at the first presentation. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Can macroalgae provide promising anti-tumoral compounds? A closer look at Cystoseira tamariscifolia as a source for antioxidant and anti-hepatocarcinoma compounds (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1704v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 25, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors have made good attempt to isolate and identify the active compounds with promising anti-hepatocarcinoma activities from Cystoseira tamariscifolia. The manuscript is presented in an intelligible fashion and written in standard English. The manuscript contains new information and needs publication. However, certain modification is required before publication.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is good and I have no comments on it.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Over all paper quality is good and may be published after minor modification. 1. Authors should provide the structure elucidation of compound 1 with BC or NOE correlation in supporting information. 2. In this study, authors explored the biological activity of crude extract (CTH). Authors claim that Cystoseira tamariscifolia is a source for antioxidant and antihepatocarcinoma compounds. However, author only isolated and identified the compound 1 from fraction 7 with antihepatocarcinoma activity. Compound 1 was tested towards HepG2 and S17 cells and was able to significantly reduce the viability of HepG2 cells (IC50 = 14.77 µg/ml) while maintaining a high selectivity towards S17 (IC50 = 48.46 µg/ml, SI = 3.28). However, authors did not describe any antioxidant activity of compound 1. It is necessary for the authors to test the antioxidant activity of compound 1 in order to achieve the goal of this object.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Can macroalgae provide promising anti-tumoral compounds? A closer look at Cystoseira tamariscifolia as a source for antioxidant and anti-hepatocarcinoma compounds (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1704v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 23, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
