Review History for The structure and diversity of freshwater diatom assemblages from Franz Josef Land Archipelago: a northern outpost for freshwater diatoms [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The structure and diversity of freshwater diatom assemblages from Franz Josef Land Archipelago: a northern outpost for freshwater diatoms To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 26th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 20th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on January 22nd, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 28th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vijai Kumar Gupta
·
Jan 28, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised manuscript is up to the standard of the journal. I recommend the revised article for publication in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 22, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vijai Kumar Gupta
·
Dec 20, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors Please address the requested minor revisions and submit your revised Mss. Regards,
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 7, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
See general comments section
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See general comments section
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript presents new data on important bioindicators of environmental change (ie, diatoms) from a previously little studied region. It warrants publication, but several issues need to be addressed. See below. Line 27, 35, 38, 140, 147: Watch the plural of diatom assemblages/diversity/identifications. It should not read as “diatoms” Line 32: taxon, not taxa Line 43: Suggest changing to – resilience of this region and its diversity Line 59: It’s unclear what is meant by “stability of these freshwaters systems”. Does this refer to species changes with warming? Ponds completely desiccating? Please elaborate. Line 118: Baffin Island is not the Canadian High Arctic. Where is this temperature data from? If Iqaluit = that is below the Arctic Circle. The high Arctic of Canada is usually considered to be islands above Baffin/Lancaster Sound. Line 125, 173: How many sites were sampled? It is reported that 18 were sampled, but 2 lakes, 6 ponds, and 8 streams = 16 total. Please clarify. Also in Fig. 4, there are 9 circles denoting ponds, but in methods it says only 6 ponds were sampled? Line 243: Given that only rock scrapes were sampled, do the authors feel that the total number of taxa were underestimated in this present study compared to previous surveys, which typically use sediment samples and therefore integrate more habitats within each site? This might be worth addressing Line 253: I think you mean “sites”, not samples. Line 272: Was any water chemistry recorded? pH values? If not, it seems speculative to assume there is a pH gradient without direct measurements. Is geology very different? Lake age (and till exposure) is given as a possible explanation, but did this region not deglaciate at around the same time? Line 288: Please elaborate what is meant by “diatom assemblages showing higher resilience”. Higher resilience to what? Line 290: The explanation of some ponds showing greater variability in terms of desiccation due to the presence of aerophilic taxa would be ok if sediment samples were analyzed, but not necessarily rock scrapes. Sediment samples cover the last several years/decades of accumulation, whereas rock scrapes should only contain diatom assemblages of the present year due to the scouring effects of ice. When the rock scrapes were taken, where in the pond were they recovered from? Underneath water? If underwater, (and assuming the rock scrapes represent only one year of diatom growth) these taxa, even if commonly identified as aerophiles, cannot be indicating desiccation of the site. In summary, to infer any sort of environmental variability at any site, you would need the collection of diatom assemblages from several years or decades, not just a single growing season. Line 318: Why are species indicative of moss and sediment microhabitats found on your rock scrapes? Perhaps they are more diverse wrt habitat than previously thought? Line 349-354: So rather than the concept of circumpolar taxa, it is more apt to refer to them as cold environment assemblages? Line 356: What is a “zakaznik”? The last section on “Future scenarios of diversity” is rather long and speculative. Oddly there is no mention of paleolimnological studies from other Arctic regions to draw comparisons as to how diatom assemblages will respond to climatic variations of the future. Also, there was no mention of changes to growing season length, or pond desiccation as evapotranspiration increases. These are arguably the 2 most important climate-related factors that can influence diatom assemblages in the Arctic, rather than say tourism and ice rafting etc. Also, with a section this long the authors say little about any implications of a climate-related change in species diversity. Fig 2. Indicator is misspelled Fig. 3 Evenness is misspelled Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The structure and diversity of freshwater diatom assemblages from Franz Josef Land Archipelago: a northern outpost for freshwater diatoms (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1705v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 17, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No major comments, minor suggestions are reported below
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No major comments, minor suggestions are reported below
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I do not see any strong evidence how exploration and tourism would be able to decrease the biodiversity. An increase of habitats and deposition of e.g. nutrients would rather lead to an aquatic biodiversity increase. But, is biodiversity really a good management goal for this region? Or should these environments rather be protected to preserve the “low” biodiversity? The mechanisms of biodiversity change on FJL are to some extent speculative, and not fully really relevant. I suggest that the author reconsider the reasoning of this part of the manuscript.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript investigates the diatom distribution in the Franz Josef Land archipelago (FJL), analyzing epilithic material from streams and sediments from ponds. Biodiversity patterns are analyzed in the light of different habitats and diatom classifications. A conceptual model is presented how environmental changes (climate warming) and increasing exploitation could affect future biodiversity. The study as such is rather descriptive, but succeeds to evaluate the findings in the light of historical data form the area, and also recent studies from circumpolar Arctic regions. In general, the manuscript is of high quality. However, the role of some drivers of biodiversity remain unclear, and should be reconsidered (detailed comments below). Minor comments •Reconsider the third sentence in the abstract (“Cosmopolitan…). The classification of diatom taxa is too arbitrary to support such a general statement (lines 29-31). •What evidence do you have that lakes deeper than 1 meter do not freeze to the bottom? This boundary seems arbitrary (lines 120-121). •Explained variance numbers in the text are not identical as in Figure 4 (lines 201-218). •Is color really needed for Figure 1? I don’t think coloring the figure adds any necessary information. Language •diatom assemblages, and not diatoms assemblages (line 27, 35) •hyphen and dash are not applied consistently throughout the entire manuscript •habitat loss instead of habitat lost (line 395) •caption Figure 2, “with higher abundance”, please be more specific (first line) •caption Figure 2, sorted instead of sorter (second line) •Figure 3, Evenness instead of Evensess (title panel 4 and 5) •Figure 4, percentage values for PCO axis 1 and 2 are not according to the text •Figure 4, ordinate label should read PCO axis 2 (and not 1) •Figure 5, Evenness instead of Evensess (title panel 4 and 5) References •AMAP, year missing (line 49) •Van der Vijver et al. 2004 (line 142) •Reference to Figure 5 instead of figure 6 (line 235) •Foged 1980? Probably just a wrong year, alternatively not cited in the reference list (line 248) •Pinseel et al., submitted or in press? (line 326, 624 and other places) •Nansen, remove first name (Fridtjof), and only 1897 is in the reference list (not 1906) (line 335) •Cleve 1899 should read 1898 (line 338) •Typing error (dots) (line 554) •Issue and pages missing (line 562) •Lange-Bertalot (line 577) Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "The structure and diversity of freshwater diatom assemblages from Franz Josef Land Archipelago: a northern outpost for freshwater diatoms (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1705v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 26, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
