Review History for A comparison of clustering methods for biogeography with fossil datasets [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A comparison of clustering methods for biogeography with fossil datasets To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 26th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 4th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on January 31st, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 1st, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Elena Papaleo
·
Feb 1, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All the previous concerns have been fully addressed and we are now ready to endorse this nice contribution for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 31, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Elena Papaleo
·
Jan 4, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript has been carefully revised by two external reviewers and it will require minor revisions to address the point raised by the reviewer #1 that are hereby attached. I am looking forward receiving the revised version of this very nice and interesting contribution.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 17, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is written in clear and concise English. The background information is sufficient to understand the problems addressed by the author. The figures are relevant and informative. This manuscript is certainly a "publishable unit."
Experimental design
label_ed_1
See my comments to the author.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings in this paper are valid. The conclusions follow naturally from the results. See my comments to the author.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This paper uses simulation to assess the efficacy of various clustering methods for distinguishing biogeographic provinces. It also introduces a new clustering method (NERC). I believe the problem posed in this study is very important, as the author states, given increased data availability and efforts to understand biodiversity patterns in the past. This paper is a good guide for those interested in paleobiogeography who are unfamiliar with cluster analyses. The problem and question is clearly defined and is relevant to the burgeoning study of paleobiodiversity. I know of no other comprehensive study regarding the performance of clustering methods using data typical of the fossil record. The paper therefore fills a very clear void in the paleobiodiversity literature. I don’t have any major concerns about this manuscript and think it deserves to be published with only some minor revisions. I have played with the functions described in this manuscript and provided in the fossil package. They seem to work well. However, I feel that this paper could benefit from providing documentation for at least the new clustering method it presents. The actual code for the NERC clustering method is not provided. I had fully expected to find at least an R markdown document describing the rclust() function. It would have been easier to evaluate the function itself if such materials had been provided. The paper states that sim.clusters() is used. I cannot find this function in the fossil package and it is also not used in the provided R code. The author instead uses sim.occ(). I am sure this is simply a typing error or a change in the name of the function that is not yet reflected in the fossil package. The author discusses "presence only" matrices (line 166; matrices with only 0’s for absence and 1’s for presence) but doesn’t appear to have tested the various clustering methods on them. As you reduce the avg.abund in the sim.occ() function, you can get “presence only” matrices but you’re also reducing richness at each site. The efficacy of these methods when we possess presence only data is paramount because it is my opinion that the abundance data in the various fossil databases are far too sparse. Of course, I think the results presented in this paper are probably generalizable to presence only matrices (a sampling intensity of 0.2 or lower gets pretty close and the performance of the various clustering methods remains the same according to figures 1 and 2 = k means and NERC outperforming the others). However, due to the way sim.occ() functions (high values of avg.abund mean both high richness and abundance), it is less clear how the clustering methods perform when richness is high but abundance data are missing. Following my last comment, does choice of dissimilarity metric affect the outcome of these simulations? This might be particularly important for presence only matrices (see Jaccard vs Alroy’s modified Forbes Index; http://www.esajournals.org/doi/abs/10.1890/14-0471.1 ). I am not necessarily proposing that the author run a huge number of additional simulations but there is no discussion of this in the manuscript. Having run only 10 iterations using the provided code, I can see how long the simulations for this paper likely took (I did not use parallel computing, however). I am also wondering how endemicity and sampling intensity interact in this context. I am certain that there are instances in the past when both parameters vary simultaneously. Do all of the clustering methods simply perform poorly in this case? Are we doomed never to understand biogeographic patterns in the past? I hope not! Where might the real fossil record lie on figure 3? If it’s somewhere between 3 and 0.5, we’re pretty golden when using the NERC and k means clustering methods. If it’s considerably lower, which might be the case for at least some floras and faunas, we are probably hopelessly doomed. In general, the author could discuss some of these issues at the end of the paper. It might function to tie the simulations back into real studies of the fossil record. Minor things In the first paragraph cite the creators of MioMAP, FAUNMAP, and the NOW database. This information should be found on their respective websites. Line 75: optimum not optima Line 105: A log-normal distribution is standard for simulating species abundance distributions but the author should provide citations to support it. Line 125: Italicize a priori Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "A comparison of clustering methods for biogeography with fossil datasets (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1720v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 30, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is well written and succinct.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is straight-forward and sufficiently interesting.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results and discussion are clear and appropriate.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "A comparison of clustering methods for biogeography with fossil datasets (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1720v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 26, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
