Review History for Metamorphosis of the invasive ascidian Ciona savignyi: environmental variables and chemical exposure [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Metamorphosis of the invasive ascidian Ciona savignyi : environmental variables and chemical exposure To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 1st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 12th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on February 5th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 5th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Pawlik
·
Feb 5, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have done a good job of re-casting this ms. as a contribution to our understanding of ascidian settlement and metamorphosis under lab conditions and in response to specific natural products.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 5, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Pawlik
·
Dec 12, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both reviewers of this ms. found it to be a satisfactory contribution to our understanding of ascidian settlement and metamorphosis, but disagreed that it represents an advance as an antifouling bioassay. I agree with this assessment. The literature reviews cited in this paper (some of which I authored) discuss at length the ecological relevance of settlement bioassays – specifically, that larvae in nature are not exposed to high concentrations of metabolites that are found inside the tissues of benthic organisms, and are likely to respond negatively (or positively) only on contact with surfaces. Assays that perfuse larval tissues in this manner are more pharmacological than ecological. Commercially useful antifouling compounds would similarly be most cost effective as surface-bound agents. These issues are inadequately addressed in the ms. Major revisions are recommended for this ms., specifically re-casting it as a contribution to understanding ascidian larval responses to various treatments under laboratory conditions, with clear context related to the limitations of lab assays of pure or extracted compounds in solution.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 7, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Fail This article falls short in reporting of previously published work, especially on ascidian bioassays which have been reported for about 3 decades. Ciona intestinal and Acidia nigra come to mind. If the assay is purported to be one that is to be used with chemistry, then speed of assessment is particularly important. Previous assays go at most to tail resolution because this is a rapid endpoint. Running an assay for 5 days with a single addition of a chemical makes no sense unless the goal is molecules that are very stable. If one thinks about this, very stable molecules, when one gains market share, build up in environments. it would be good to look at the literature on assays used to do bioassay directed purification and assays to assess antifouling activity of natural products and examine their features in relation to your assay.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Fail, other assays have used ascidians and have tested different surface energies and found very high specificity in responses. The plastics and surface energies used in these studies, which are not expensive and easy to obtain were not tested.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Did a very good job on this. The data are fine, the premise of an antifouling bioassay is the one that is not well supported.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I've made my major comments in the first two boxes above. It is really important if you want to propose a bioassay for studying antifouling compounds that you propose an assay that is fast and relevant to the topic. Watching development to a fully developed ascidian is not the best idea. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Metamorphosis of the invasive ascidian Ciona savignyi: environmental variables and chemical exposure (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1739v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 10, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors claim to have developed a ‘simple’ bioassay for screening compounds and natural product extracts for antifouling activity against ascidians. However, the bioassay described here confounds toxicity and antifouling effects (i.e., for a meaningful antifouling assay, compounds or natural extracts should be incorporated in an adequate matrix that would release them at a meaningful rate and where the larvae could potentially settle, not directly released in the well water as the authors seem to have done here). In addition, Ciona savignyi larvae are not readily available further undermining the usefulness of the assay described here.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors were very thorough with their testing and considered many variables that could influence larval settlement, including the photoperiod, substrate type, and temperature. Larval density, well size, and carrier solvents were also investigated. However, as mentioned above, the described experimental setting is not adequate to test for antifouling properties of natural products or extracts.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
There are few studies that have looked into which parameters may influence ascidian larval development and survival and thus results described here are very interesting. Assays were well designed and very thorough and results were correctly analyzed and interpreted. However, these findings are not adequate to validate an antifouling assay, which unfortunately was the main goal of this manuscript.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Thorough the manuscript, the authors confound ‘larval development’ with ‘metamorphosis’. Abstract: Lines 30-31. Add average value for repeatability and intermediate precision values followed by their standard deviation or standard error values. Introduction. Please, add further information about C. savignyi biological cycle. How often does this species reproduce? How fast does it grow? What is its actual distribution range? How easy would it be to obtain specimens of this species and keep them alive in aquaria? Etc. Material and methods. Lines 100-101. What do you mean by ‘substrate types were varied individually’? Material and Methods. Lines 160-169. Please, explain why polygodial was enriched with an ‘environmental extract’ and why that specific environmental extract (containing mussels) was selected. Results. Lines 227-229. Indicate which stages were most affected by these compounds. Results. Lines 229-232. Please, consider other repeatability and intermediate precision indicators. ±14 and 17% is too vague (e.g., ±14% of what exactly?). Please, update and add relevant references throughout the manuscript. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Metamorphosis of the invasive ascidian Ciona savignyi: environmental variables and chemical exposure (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1739v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 1, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
