Review History for Distinguishing between enamel fluorosis and other enamel defects in permanent teeth of children [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Distinguishing between enamel fluorosis and other enamel defects in permanent teeth of children To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 7th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 1st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on February 8th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 8th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Praveen Arany
·
Feb 8, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The reviewer comments appear to be adequately addressed. Congratulations!
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 8, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Praveen Arany
·
Feb 1, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address the comments from the reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 27, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Research question is good Language needs improvement in introduction. Literature is relevant and well referenced
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Primary research is within the scope of the journal what is the age group of the subjects (whether it is 0 to 9 year or only 9 year old). There will be Memory/Recall bias with the ECEL Method
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Findings are valid as per the method There are no ANOVA tables since authors have mentioned about the ANOVA Tables are not labelled properly and no foot notes on each table conclusion is well stated
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Distinguishing between enamel fluorosis and other enamel defects in permanent teeth of children (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1745v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 27, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
- include mention of the varying fluoride levels in the abstract results since you mentioned them in the abstract methods regarding the selection process - in the INTRO (lines 46-47): can you clarify/expand upon the following sentence (perhaps by tracking these three themes through the rest of the paragraph more clearly/with the same terms)?: "The differences between some of the diagnostic categories are uncertain, vague, or insensitive." - can you finish this sentence?: "Still the differentiation between some categories of TFI is not sufficiently precise....... (for what?)" - although this journal does not emphasize impact or novelty, it does emphasize relevance and meaning: I think it would strengthen your manuscript to articulate throughout the importance and implications of your research question, to explain why the following statements (to list a few) matter: "need for accurate data of dental fluorosis" (line 83), "However, there has always been controversy about using fluoride because of fluorosis…" (lines 209-210), " Therefore, there is a need for a precise way to diagnose dental fluorosis" (line 212). - please describe the various appearances of DDEs and show how fluorosis can be easily confused with non-fluoride related DDEs
Experimental design
label_ed_2
- please briefly describe HOW fluorosis is described/identified by each index so the reader can have some insight into the subjectivity inherent in using these measures - should state HOW you confirmed the participants had lived in their respective area when they were less than ~6 years of age - should state how you know the water source (and thus fluoride exposure) is the same for all participants in each region - should explain why you chose communities with fluoride up to 1.22 for the "optimal fluoride " category if 1 ppm is the upper limit of "optimal" (as stated in the same paragraph, line 104 v. line 107) - exclusion of children - if the reasons for exclusion are related to DDEs (eg, large restorations could result from severe defects), could bias results; acknowledge this in the Discussion section and discuss the expected direction of such bias - discuss "recall bias" as a limitation of the ECEL method, especially for recording illnesses (typical illnesses – opposed to major accidents, etc. -- may be particularly difficult to remember 4-9 years after the fact; discuss the expected direction of this bias (ie, what if an illness was not recalled/forgotten?, what if an illness was recalled at the wrong point in time?)
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
- be cautious and perhaps more conservative with the wording of and assumptions around fluorosis and DDEs throughout the manuscript; for example, “That suggests that what was diagnosed as fluorosis were DDEs which may resemble fluorosis." (lines 30-31) may be better worded as: "That suggests that what was diagnosed as fluorosis MAY HAVE BEEN NON-FLUORIDE/OTHER DDEs THAT resemble fluorosis/FOLLOW A SIMILAR PATTERN TO FLUOROSIS." - be careful not to suggest DDEs exclude fluorosis (fluoride is one cause of DDEs) and "fluorosis" is just a subjective categorization of defects based on assumptions, as your paper nicely demonstrates. Be sure to make this clear and consistent throughout, especially for non-dental readers. - I think the 4th paragraph of the RESULTS (lines 195-205) needs to be revised. It was very confusing to me and these are the main results! More specifically, is 8.4 really the % of both 1) all children who had fluorosis-resembling defects (line 195) and 2) of children diagnosed with fluorosis, those who matched with health-related events (line 197; 31/115 = 2.7% ???). If I have misunderstood, I think this needs clarifying. If this is a strange coincidence, please acknowledge this so the reader will not be confused. - the 4th paragraph of the RESULTS (lines 195-205) should consistently present whole numbers (number of participants) followed by percentages in parentheses; please avoid only presenting results as percentages - please clarify the following sentence (lines 201-202): "The fluorosis resembling defects (8.4% of all children) included 26.9% of what was diagnosed as fluorosis by Dean’s and TF Indices." - discuss the expected direction of bias for each scenario of the described limitations (lines 251-259) - I think discussion/mention of the 8.5% and 6.7% final fluorosis prevalence estimates in the optimal and low settings warrants notice/mention (perhaps tie this into the existing discussion about limitations on lines 251-259) - it would strengthen the article to directly state the potential public health implications of the following phrase (line 261): "misjudgment about using fluoride." - similarly, WHY is the stated Conclusion important (again, directly state the public health implications?)?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I appreciate your creative approach to a critical question that has been swept under the carpet but is worthy of critical evaluation. Please be sure to bolster your manuscript with clearer articulation of the context of your research question and the potential public health implications of your findings! - after line 233 or 240 I was expecting and looking forward to suggestions for improved (more objective) measurement of fluorosis and/or DDEs in general (other scale, such as DDE index?) after such a critical evaluation of the existing scales/indices/approach. This question will be of particular interest to those who do not have ECEL data. Or, can fluorosis not really be measured without laboratory/radiographic methods? - Please clarify what the “difference” is of (lines 214-215): "The difference has not yet been evaluated" - citation needed for the following (line 218): "A systematic review reported that the prevalence of fluorosis in Iran was 61%" - please clarify the middle of the sentence on line 247 ("such defects should not be seen on the teeth of children who experienced the same adverse health– related conditions and....") Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Distinguishing between enamel fluorosis and other enamel defects in permanent teeth of children (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1745v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Tayebeh Malek Mohammadi ·
Jan 31, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Clear, unambiguous, professional English language used throughout. Intro & background to show context. Literature well referenced & relevant. Structure conforms to PeerJ standard, discipline norm, or improved for clarity. Figures are relevant, high quality, well labeled & described. Raw data supplied.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Negative/ inconclusive results accepted. Meaningful replication encouraged where rationale & benefit to literature is clearly stated. Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Research question well defined, relevant & meaningful. It is stated how research fills an identified knowledge gap. Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical & ethical standard. Methods described with sufficient detail & information to replicate. Conclusion well stated, linked to original research question & limited to supporting results.
Comments for the author
The report is concise and important in its field. Data is robust and study has a rigorous method. It is acceptable for publication with minor English revision. Comments: Please write complete words such as (TF) for the first time. Was there any difference between fluorosis resembling defects among three area with different water fluoride level? Cite this review as
Malek Mohammadi T ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "Distinguishing between enamel fluorosis and other enamel defects in permanent teeth of children (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1745v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 7, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
