Review History for Adverse events associated with incretin-based drugs in Japanese spontaneous reports: a mixed effects logistic regression model [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Adverse events associated with incretin-based drugs in Japanese spontaneous reports: a mixed effects logistic regression model To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 10th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 22nd, 2016. The first revision was submitted on February 2nd, 2016 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 12th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Massimiliano Zanin
·
Feb 12, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I would like to thank the authors for having addressed the comments highlighted in the previous evaluation round. The paper is now more complete, and ready to be published.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 8, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript is now successfully revised and acceptable in this journal. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Adverse events associated with incretin-based drugs in Japanese spontaneous reports: a mixed effects logistic regression model (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1753v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 2, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Massimiliano Zanin
·
Jan 22, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors, First of all, please let me apologise for the delay in handling this manuscript: it has been quite difficult to recruit referees, probably because of the new year holidays. Beside the comments provided by the Referee, please find below some additional comments of my own. While I find the manuscript technically sound, I also find it very technical, with many items that are not discussed in detail; considering the multi-disciplinary readership of PeerJ, this may alienate many potential readers - which would, of course, be bad for the diffusion of your work. Some more specific issues: Introduction While the introduction is generally OK, I find that it lacks a more detailed review of the available literature. Many papers have been published in the past about FAERS, for instance; but very few of them are cited. Moreover, most of the references of the introduction are focused on the problems associated with incretin drugs, while the conclusions are completely focused on the methodology. Authors should find a better equilibrium between both aspects: if the methodology is new, this should be demonstrated by correctly citing and describing relevant works. Material and Methods The authors should take into account that PeerJ readership come from very different disciplines, and therefore any paper should include clear explanations of main terms and concepts. Specifically, I find that too many acronyms are used (for instance, in the Results section); and that many of them are not clearly explained. For instance, the average reader may have no idea about what a Preferred Term or a High Level Term is! Methods The Method section should be extended, and include more information about the type of statistical analysis used. Once again, authors should bear in mind that the average reader may not have a strong statistical background. As noted by the Referee, there is no information about how the AIC should be used and interpreted. Conclusions Just three lines of conclusions are far from enough. I'd recommend to present a more exhaustive review of the results, organised in two main lines: the advantages of the proposed methodology on one hand; and the specific results for incretin-based drugs on the other. I think that this last point is especially relevant: a more detailed discussion should be included about the fact that some drugs are more dangerous than others, and compare this with the existing literature.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 19, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors should pay particular attention to the instructions given by the Author Guidelines and revise the references especially in body text citations accordingly. For example, Page3. line81: [10], Page4. line104: [15], and line106: [16].
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1.It would be more reader-friendly if the authors give more information about how to judge a favor model using the AIC. Did the authors determine a favor model with a minimal AIC or the difference of AIC in two models was negative? 2.Why did the authors use 99% two-side (‘two-side’ should be written in body text) confidence intervals (CIs) instead of 95%? Was it required stringent level of statistical significance to evaluate a favor model? I think it would be useful if the authors give more information about it.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
1. In the results of odds ratios of mixed effects logistic regression, some of the CIs were very wide. What influence did the wide CIs have on the model fit, or no impact? The authors’ view or opinions should be describe in the discussion section as necessary. 2. The generalizability of this study results is questionable. Is the approach only for SRS data from JADER or will it expand for the other data or database?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The paper by Daichi Narushima et al. entitled ‘Adverse Events Associated with Incretin-based Drugs in Japanese Spontaneous Reports: A Mixed Effects Logistic Regression Model’ is an interesting study to proposed a statistical modeling approach based on a logistic regression model to address heterogeneity by time of reporting for Spontaneous reporting systems (SRSs) data in the Japanese Adverse Drug Event Report (JADER) database. The authors applied this approach to analyze ADEs of incretin-based drugs. The authors reported that the model with the random effect was appropriate for frequently reported adverse drug events (ADEs). This was a novel approach and the findings will be of interest to medical experts as well as public officials and researchers in this field. However, I recommend several revision points. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Adverse events associated with incretin-based drugs in Japanese spontaneous reports: a mixed effects logistic regression model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1753v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 10, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
