Review History for Cell cycle progression in glioblastoma cells is unaffected by pathophysiological levels of hypoxia [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Cell cycle progression in glioblastoma cells is unaffected by pathophysiological levels of hypoxia To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 14th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 8th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on February 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 12th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Giulia Piaggio
·
Feb 12, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You have completely satisfied all reviewers criticism.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Giulia Piaggio
·
Feb 8, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers feel that the manuscript addresses interesting issue, however I ask you to address the minor issues that they raised.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 26, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Richards et al investigated the effect of different oxygen levels on glioblastoma (GBM) cell proliferation and survival. Results indicated that cell cycle distribution and viability are unaffected by long term exposure (up to 4 days) to pathophysiological levels of oxygen (1-8% O 2). Both transient cell cycle arrest and small amounts of cell death could only be detected when cells were exposed to severe hypoxia (0.1% O2). No significant changes in p21 protein expression levels were detected. Th overall presentation of the data and structure of the manuscripts (quality of the figures, text clarity, equilibrium of different parts of the manuscript) are satisfying.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Experimental results are generally sound and clearly illustrated. Minor points. The decrease in viability at 96h of D566 (Fig 1A) does not look statistically significant and as such should not be emphasized. U87 cells look unaffected by hypoxia for 72 hours, not 96 (see fig 2A and line 153 of the text).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Findings are of interest. Their impact would be stronger if mostly based on human GBM neurospheres that mirror the actual biology of GBM better than cells grown in serum. Conclusions are coherent with results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Li et al (Int J Med Sci. 2013; 10(4): 399–407) have also shown similar data on two of the cell lines used in this study, U87 and U251, adding data on their increased “stemness” under hypoxia. It would be fair to add that reference and specific comments, if any. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Cell cycle progression in glioblastoma cells is unaffected by pathophysiological levels of hypoxia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1755v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 3, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
By using three different glioblastoma cancer cell lines (D566, U251 and U87) and two patients-derived cell lines (GBM3 and GBM04), the authors demonstrate that hypoxia does not affect cell proliferation (evaluated by cell counting with flow citometry) and cell death (evaluated by Annexin V/PI staining). Cells seem to respond only at prolonged exposure to severe hypoxia.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Although the results seem to be preliminar, the manuscript is clear and well written and the addressed issue is interesting. This reviewer has only minor revisions to report. MINOR REVISIONS: •The manuscript should be carefully checked for possible errors. Some mistakes are present: - Abstract, line 22: “the effect of a range of oxygen tensions….were assessed” – please check. - Introduction, Line 44: “characterised hystopathology” – please check. - Results, line 170: “hypoxia-induced”. - Discussion, line 215: repetition of “that”. - Discussion, line 223: “hypoxia-induced”. •Please check and correct “O 2” in all the figure legends. •Please check all the histograms. All the x axis are missing.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Cell cycle progression in glioblastoma cells is unaffected by pathophysiological levels of hypoxia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1755v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 14, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
