Review History for The phylogenetic relationships of basal archosauromorphs, with an emphasis on the systematics of proterosuchian archosauriforms [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The phylogenetic relationships of basal archosauromorphs, with an emphasis on the systematics of proterosuchian archosauriforms To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 1st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 19th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on February 16th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on February 18th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 18th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Hans-Dieter Sues
·
Feb 18, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for reviewing the edited version of your revised manuscript. I will now recommend the revised submission for acceptance for publication.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 18, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Hans-Dieter Sues
·
Feb 16, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Martin, Because PeerJ does not provide copy-editing and this is such an important paper, I took it on myself to edit your manuscript for language and style. I will e-mail you the Word document with the track changes as PeerJ only allows uploading PDF copies. Please check the track changes and, once you are are satisfied, resubmit the manuscript to PeerJ. Many thanks. Best, Hans
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 16, 2016
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Hans-Dieter Sues
·
Jan 19, 2016
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address the comments by both referees in detail. It is also important to revew the entire text again for spelling and grammar mistakes because the journal does not provide copy-editing.
label_author_1
Adam Pritchard ·
Jan 14, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I only have a number of small comments on phrasing and spelling. I've also noted several characters that require a few more exemplar taxa in the descriptions.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I have only minor comments on the phylogenetic characters developed by the author. I have also made some small comments on codings throughout the text. I would ask that the author comment on these differences rather than rerun all of the analyses for his revisions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This phylogenetic study represents a sorely needed expansion of our understanding of the clade Archosauromorpha, focused on primarily on “proterosuchians.” It’s excellent to see an extensive revision of early archosauriforms, especially when so many geographically and stratigraphically important taxa are not represented in phylogenetic studies. The extensive descriptions and illustrations of phylogenetic characters will be quite useful for future work. Of particular value are the high-quality photographs and updated descriptions of a number of early archosauromorphs that have never been studied in a modern context. Overall, this paper represents a substantial increase in the morphological information and phylogenetic context for the base of Archosauromorpha. I have made quite a few small comments throughout. Most of these are small comments on spelling or phrasing. I have noted a few different opinions I have on codings, but I think these should simply be addressed in some way in the text rather than a full-on recoding and rerunning of the extensive analyses. In some of the character descriptions, there are few to no examples of one or both states. I have noted where these severely limited my understanding of the morphology being described. I congratulate the author on producing this extensive work, which will definitely contribute to my own future systematic studies and those of anyone studying the early diversification of archosaur-line reptiles. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Pritchard AC ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The phylogenetic relationships of basal archosauromorphs, with an emphasis on the systematics of proterosuchian archosauriforms (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1778v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Nick Fraser ·
Jan 18, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Firstly, I should say that this is by no means as thorough a review as I would like - it is a gigantic manuscript that deserves a much more careful review that I was able to give it. On receiving the manuscript and seeing the full extent of the task, I was even less favorably disposed towards it when I noticed on the first page of the introduction that the author failed to spell their own name correctly! This speaks to the potentially very significant task of cleaning the manuscript up for publication. Nevertheless, having said that, in general I think there is a great deal of merit to the manuscript. It covers a lot of ground and the figures are largely very instructive (although a bit fuzzy in one or two cases – although I concede that the quality of the fossils is perhaps a major contributory factor here)! It is particularly nice to see some serious consideration given to forms such as Jesairosaurus, Prolacertoides and Kadimakara. Given my complaint about the length of the manuscript I hesitate to say that a little more detailed assessment of certain other basal archosauromoprhs would have been a great service to the scientific community, but that can certainly be taken on in further manuscripts! The manuscript covers a lot of ground concerning Permo-Triassic archosauromorphs and it seems to be a very comprehensive study – particularly with respect to the proterosuchians. I think the author is to be applauded for his in-depth studies. I noted a number of very significant observations on various taxa and I believe that the author has been very diligent and consistent in his first-hand observations of material. I just hope he has been as diligent in his writing and particularly the bibliography! Nothing of major significance jumped out at me that I would like to see the author address. Therefore with the caveat that I have not checked the references, re-run the analyses or carefully cross-referenced all the observations, I suggest that the manuscript will only need relatively minor revision. In other words a good copy-edit is needed but perhaps not too much more!
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Very standard approach to the phylogeny and I have no complaints. However, in view of the length of the manuscript it would have been impossible for me to run the analyses myself without severely delaying the review. So reluctantly, I cannot confirm the accuracy of this aspect of the manuscript.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
From my experience of some of these fossils I have no reason to believe that there is anything inaccurate in the observations. As noted above I cannot comment on the analyses, but nothing in the resulting cladograms gives me cause to question the accuracy of the analyses. I did have a look at a handful of the character scorings and I saw nothing amiss.
Comments for the author
The very detailed descriptions and the well-labeled figures are extremely informative. This is a tremendous body of novel work and it will be an invaluable reference. I would have appreciated some advance warning so that I could have been a bit more thorough in my review! Cite this review as
Fraser N ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "The phylogenetic relationships of basal archosauromorphs, with an emphasis on the systematics of proterosuchian archosauriforms (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1778v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 1, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
