Review History for Comparative transcriptome analysis of papilla and skin in the sea cucumber, Apostichopus japonicus [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Comparative transcriptome analysis of papilla and skin in the sea cucumber, Apostichopus japonicus To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 12th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 15th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on February 11th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 18th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tzi Bun Ng
·
Feb 18, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your contribution to PeerJ, it is now Acceptable
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 11, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tzi Bun Ng
·
Dec 15, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear authors Please take into account all of the reviewers' comments when revising your manuscript. Merry Christmas & happy New Year TB Ng
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 23, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1.Please confirm whether the official symbol of integrin-alpha 2 is ‘IN-alpha2’ or not.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1.This manuscript is focused on determination of global changes in gene expression between the papilla and skin in the sea cucumber, however, there is no information about how to prepare the papilla and skin tissues (samples) from the see cucumber in Materials and Methods section. 2. Also, the authors further investigated the DEGs (differentially expressed genes) between the papilla and skin in the see cucumber by comparing to see cucumber intestine data from Sun et al. (Sun et al 2013). However, the purpose of this comparing analysis and the meaning of the results were little described in the Materials-and-Methods and Discussion section. Also, please clarify the meaning of the following statement; “Only 7 of DEGs identified showed the same foldchange trend than observed in the papilla.”. Furthermore, the sentence of “Fibrinogen-like protein A (FGLA) … and blood clotting” is should be supported by inserting several references. Also, the authors only described the result of commonly dysregulated genes between DEGs in the papilla and the previous reported intestine data by Sun et al. in the Result section and Table 4. Where is results from commonly dysregulated genes between DEGs in the Skin and the intestine data? And, “Foldchang” should be corrected to “Fold change” in Table 4.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
1.The authors confirmed and validated the DEGs results by performing qRT-PCR experiment in Figure 5, however, there is no error bars in the result. The results of qRT-PCR data was obtained from single experiments, not triplicate experiments?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The word spacing in the manuscript should be confirmed more detailed. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Comparative transcriptome analysis of papilla and skin in the sea cucumber, Apostichopus japonicus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1779v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The data is huge and potentially very informative for sea cucumber researchers. This article will be worth to publish in PeerJ after extensive revision.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Sound experimental techniques.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Poor organization of the data. Please see my statement that indicated below.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This article was written with poor organization that makes readers hard to follow the points the authors want to communicate. By following the title of this article, the text should categorically described, such as (1) Papilla, (2) Skin and (3) Tube feet, and so on. Better not chaotically hopping around little by little among organs. Should be much more focused in each section. I think Fig 3 and Fig. 4B are the most valuable information for the readers. Thus, text better be more precise on each subject. Others are mere technical descriptions employed in the present study. These latter subjects should be as concise as possible, unless some of them involve something new. The followings are my suggestion of practical way to revise the text. (1)“Abstract” lacked focused description indicated by Fig. 3 and Fig. 4B. (2)“Introduction” described wordy aimless background. The authors should enrich the statement represented by line 94-100. (3)“Results” should re-organize categorically by focusing on skin and papilla as I pointed above. Other organs or tissues should be presented as an additional section. (4)Line 229-235 better move to “Introduction”. (5)Typing style was truncated. The minor revisions are the follows. (1)Line 191 to 193: Lack of necessity in logic. Better be deleted. (2) Line 210 to 212: Move to Discussion. (3)Line 229-235: Move to Introduction. (4)“Conclusion” (Line 298-307): The current description is “Future perspective”. Needs complete re-writing by focusing on the main results of this study. I would recommend professional editing work before submitting the revised version. I have a good sample article that subjected similar study but on sea urchin genome project. Following is the information. I welcome the authors to refer the way to re-write. They are in Developmental Biology volume 300 Issue 1 “Sea Urchin Genome: Implications and Insight” 2006. I was not involved in any of articles in the issue. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Comparative transcriptome analysis of papilla and skin in the sea cucumber, Apostichopus japonicus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1779v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 12, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
