Review History for Growth and fatty acid characterization of microalgae isolated from municipal waste-treatment systems and the potential role of algal-associated bacteria in feedstock production [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Growth and fatty acid characterization of microalgae isolated from municipal waste-treatment systems and the potential role of algal-associated bacteria in feedstock production To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 7th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 1st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on February 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 18th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Yu Liu
·
Feb 18, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The reviewers' comments have been reasonably addressed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Yu Liu
·
Feb 1, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please address the reviewer comments. The clearness of the figures needs to be improved, and the results should be analysed in a holistic manner as Reviewers 2 and 3 commented.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 17, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a well written manuscript with a lot of fundamental research on the microalgae growth. Many samples were collected from three wastewater treatment plants for cultivation, extraction and analysis. Some comments for the authors to address before final acceptance (minor revision): 1. Abstract: address the wastewater treatment systems (e.g. secondary sedimentation plant, etc.) 2. Introduction: Use past or present tense (avoid mixture). See more specifically lines 72-83. 3. Discussion: Authors should discuss the potential application of their findings. For instance, the growth/FAME experiments were conducted with acetate and glucose. What would be the influence of real wastewater (domestic or industrial)? How continues flow studies would affect the growth, lipid production, etc.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Growth and fatty acid characterization of microalgae isolated from municipal waste-treatment systems and the potential role of algal-associated bacteria in feedstock production (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1780v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 25, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Many markers in Figures 3-5 are crowded and overlaped, which turns these images vague and meaningless. Is there any other statistic tool available in stead of PCA plots?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1. Abastract should be more concise. The first three sentences did not point out the core objective of this study. Please revise it. 2. The authors have screened several algal strains from a local wastewater treatment plant. The composition of the wastewater should be added. I guess that may give us more clues to find out more useful algea. 3. Page 6 Lines 94-96: This preliminary isolation was conducted with light. Can this be the reason that "extremely low biomass yields for all algal strains grown under heterotrophic conditions"(page 8 line 158)?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
1. Figure 1: are these growth rate values the best one for each strain? Otherwise I'm afraid that it is hard to announce which one grows faster. 2. Pages 14-15 Lines 293-305: this paragraph appears redundant and irrelavent to the core sense of this study. Please delete it. 3. The authors emphasized that mang previous studies reported the similar phenomena. It's OK but I think that weakens the significance of this study, looking like a repeat of previous findings. 4. Many spectulations are not evidenced. As mentioned in the paper, maybe it's just the first phase study. The paper could be more convincable with more work on these wastewater algea.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Page 4 Lines 58-60 The statement is confusing thus should be rewritten. It generalizes the process applicability to all microalgae while it is only talking about one case study. Page 5 Line 76 The verb “have ” is unnecessary after “as well as” Page 5 Lines 87-89 The statement here should be rewritten to make a precision on the sampling sites. In its end it seems there are more than three sampling sites Page 8 Line 143 There is a typing error in this line Page 8 Lines 152-153 There is a typing error in the statement Page 8 Line 155 The abbreviation should be defined before its use Page 9 Lines 169-170 Rewrite the statement clarifying that it is about front and middle injectors’ temperatures Page 9 Lines 181-183 The statements should be rewritten in other words instead of using them as they are in the above section Page 11 Lines 212-213 The statement here should be rewritten to point out the coverage of the present study otherwise it is confusing Page 11 Line 216-218 The end of the statement is about wastewater treatment plants instead of wastewaters therefore it should be rewritten in a correct way Page 17 Lines 350-353 The statement here should be rewritten to clarify its meaning Page 19 Lines 392-394 The bibliography format is incorrect Page 20 Lines 400-401 The bibliography format is incorrect and the article title is incorrectly written Page 21 Lines 427-429 The article title is incorrectly written Page 22 Lines 456-457 The bibliography format is incorrect Page 23 Line 464 There is an error in pages numbers in the bibliography Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Growth and fatty acid characterization of microalgae isolated from municipal waste-treatment systems and the potential role of algal-associated bacteria in feedstock production (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1780v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Jan 30, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The MS was well written. But figure organization was not so good.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Experimental procedure was well descibed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Suggest to compare the experimental results with other related published papers.
Comments for the author
This MS isolated 19 microalgae isolates from wastewater, and found that Chlorella and Scenedesmus isolates produced the highest lipid under photoautotrophic and mixotrophic growth conditions with glucose as carbon substrate. Some interestingly, this MS reported a notable effect of commensal bacteria on fatty acid composition from microalgae. This study will be useful in developing algae-based biofuel production, and the MS was well written. However, some revisions were needed prior to consideration of publication in Peer J. Some specific comments were listed as following: 1, This MS did isolation experiments and did successfully get microalgae isolates from wastewater. However, whether these microalgae had some advantages for fatty acid or biofuel production compared to other published strains was unknown. Suggest to make a comparison in detail. 2, The main purpose of this MS was to reduce cost and improve environmental sustainability through an ideal microalgal feedstock system. But, this MS only investigated the growth and physiological properties of microalgae isolates with glucose/acetate as carbon. It was unknown whether these isolates had good performance under growth in real wastewater conditions. 3, What were effects of temperature and pH (or other related environmental conditions) on strain growth and fatty acid production? 4, In Keyword, better to use the full name of FAME. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "Growth and fatty acid characterization of microalgae isolated from municipal waste-treatment systems and the potential role of algal-associated bacteria in feedstock production (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1780v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 7, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
