Review History for Response diversity of free-floating plants to nutrient stoichiometry and temperature: growth and resting body formation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Response diversity of free-floating plants to nutrient stoichiometry and temperature: growth and resting body formation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 31st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 5th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on February 8th, 2016 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 18th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Leon Higley
·
Feb 18, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for responding to the reviewers' suggestions and questions in your revision.
label_author_1
Phyllis Higley ·
Feb 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
My suggestions were adopted and I am satisfied with the quality of the paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The additional explanation strengthens the methodology section.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data reported and conclusions made are sound.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The changes to the manuscript have improved the value to the reader. Cite this review as
Higley P ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Response diversity of free-floating plants to nutrient stoichiometry and temperature: growth and resting body formation (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1781v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 8, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Leon Higley
·
Feb 5, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I'm pleased to note that both reviewers recognized the merit of your manuscript, and I am confident it will be acceptable with only minor revision. Please address points recognized by the reviewers, and let me know if you have any questions.
label_author_2
Jeff Hartman ·
Jan 26, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
- The author would benefit from citing a study from 2015 on the relative in vitro growth rates of duckweed (Ziegler et al. 2015 Plant Biology).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
- The author should explain why the replicates for Exp I and II different. Briefly explaining the reasoning is sufficient. - Author needs to explain why plants were grown at 30 C in Experiment II, and not at the range of temperature as in Exp I. Although maximum growth rates was the stated reasoning, the author states in the Discussion that species had similar growth rates under high temperatures, and species differences were more likely to be recorded under lower temperatures. I was curious as to why a range of temperatures with various nutrient stoichiometries was not used in Exp II, and I expected a single experiment combining the nutrient combinations and temperatures, which would essentially be Exp I and II together. I was unclear as to why these studies were conducted in two separate experiments, and I think more justification is needed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
- I think the author needs to address in the Discussion how the results may impact applied uses of floating plants. This argument was highlighted in the Introduction, and should be reflected in the Discussion/Conclusion as well. Speculation as to which species could be advantageous would be welcome. I think this was the biggest missing piece in the Discussion/Conclusion sections.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
- Overall, this manuscript was very well written and easy to read. - Figures were easy to interpret, simplified, and relevant to the results. - I appreciated the clear explanation of methods in the appendices. - I have included an annotated PDF for briefer comments and edits. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Hartman J ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Response diversity of free-floating plants to nutrient stoichiometry and temperature: growth and resting body formation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1781v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Phyllis Higley ·
Jan 29, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article is well written and the reporting is clear. The background information is appropriate to orient the reader, and the biological significance of the system and the rationale for the study are explained to show how the work fits into the broader field of knowledge. Citations are included and are appropriate. The structure of the article fits the template, and tables and figures are appropriately expressed. This is a coherent body of work.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The article reports original primary research, and the stated objectives are relevant. The methods are clearly reported and reproducible. Statistical analyses seem appropriate although I am not aware of an appropriate use of systematic assignment of treatments (L110).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data are robust and clearly reported. The conclusions are clearly stated and reflect the objectives of the study. Limitations of the study are clearly stated, and interpretation of the results are appropriate. The need for future studies are included and provide direction for the further elucidation of response diversity in floating plant species.
Comments for the author
Title L 1 uses the term "free-floating". However, in the body of the paper he primarily uses the term "floating". These terms should be reconciled. Abstract L 23 "floating plant polycultures were not more dominant": awkward wording Introduction L 77 The surveys were not used to determine response variability. They were used to address the second objective regarding plant dominance. Material & Methods L 106 Insert "fronds" after "white or brown". L 108 refers to "many previous studies": Author should cite more than one. L 119 Indicate which component of "growth"; i.e., surface area L 152 refers to "many experiments": Author should cite more than one. Cite this review as
Higley P ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Response diversity of free-floating plants to nutrient stoichiometry and temperature: growth and resting body formation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1781v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 31, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
