Review History for A new species of Psychrophrynella (Amphibia, Anura, Craugastoridae) from the humid montane forests of Cusco, eastern slopes of the Peruvian Andes [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A new species of Psychrophrynella (Amphibia, Anura, Craugastoridae) from the humid montane forests of Cusco, eastern slopes of the Peruvian Andes To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 17th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 10th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on February 16th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 23rd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jane Hughes
·
Feb 23, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have satisfactorily addressed the comments of reviewers, and have included genetic data.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 16, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jane Hughes
·
Feb 10, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address all the reviewers comments in your revision. I agree with reviewer 2 that inclusion of some genetic data might be useful - but not mandatory. All the other suggestions seem reasonable to me and should improve the paper.
label_author_1
Ignacio De la Riva ·
Jan 27, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The manuscript describes a species of frog new to science, so this is an important finding.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This manuscript is clear and well written, and it represents a worthwhile contribution to the knowledge of the amphibian fauna of the Andes of southern Peru. I have made some minor comments (and corrections) in the attached PDF file (from the original Word document), which should be addressed by the authors in order to clarify some points. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
De la Riva I ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "A new species of Psychrophrynella (Amphibia, Anura, Craugastoridae) from the humid montane forests of Cusco, eastern slopes of the Peruvian Andes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1807v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Matthew Heinicke ·
Feb 9, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The study is very well-written, cites the major relevant background literature including both systematic background and descriptions of related species, and is structured appropriately for a species description. The one suggestion I have is that the systematic background (lines 56-67) could be expanded a bit since these frogs are a taxonomically problematic group. As it is written now, readers may mistakenly get the impression that all species of Noblella and Psychrophrynella form a clade and need to be merged into a single genus, when they actually don't. The main issue is not phylogeny but rather taxonomy. There are clearly two phylogenetic lineages, but nomenclatural confusion exists especially because for many years specimens now described as P. usurpator were incorrectly assigned to Phrynopus (=Noblella) peruvianus, which has persisted to some extent in the literature even after De la Riva et al. fixed the problem in 2008 (fas in, for example, Pyron and Wiens 2011). It is correct, however, that if the type of Noblella peruviana actually belongs to the clade currently called "Psychrophrynella", then this clade would properly be called Noblella, and the valid name of the clade currently called "Noblella" would default to Phyllonastes. Within Psychrophrynella, it is also worth pointing out that Hedges et al. 2008 included the Peruvian species P. usurpator and the Bolivian species P. iatamasi and P. wettsteini, so although there are morphooogical differences between Peruvian and Bolivian species, at least some are known to belong to the same clade.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design follows that of a typical species description, and is formatted in the standard that has been used in related Craugastorid frogs for years. Methods are clearly described and would be easily reproduced. Relevant specimens on which measurements were made are properly referenced. It would be useful if a small amount of genetic data were included (such as a piece of the 16S gene) to confirm generic placement. However, given that the new species is morphologically similar to P. usurpator and comes from a locality fairly close to known localities of P. usurpator, I don't see inclusion of genetic data as mandatory. A few sentences or a citation on the diagnostic usefulness of color pattern to characterize species of Psychrophrynella or other craugastorids would also be welcome.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The overall findings are valid. The primary aim of a species description is to demonstrate the new species differs from known species with one or more diagnostic characters. The authors meet this aim by providing several diagnostic characters, including coloration and relative tubercle size. They also follow all other requirements of the Code of Zoological Nomenclature in producing a valid species description. I do not find it necessary personally, but if PeeJ policy is to make all data publicly available, the raw measurements used in the PCA should be included in an appendix.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No comments beyond what is stated above. Cite this review as
Heinicke M ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "A new species of Psychrophrynella (Amphibia, Anura, Craugastoridae) from the humid montane forests of Cusco, eastern slopes of the Peruvian Andes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1807v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 17, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
