Review History for Mussel biofiltration effects on attached bacteria and unicellular eukaryotes in fish-rearing seawater [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Mussel biofiltration effects on attached bacteria and unicellular eukaryotes in fish-rearing seawater To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 2nd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 18th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on February 6th, 2016 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 29th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Céline Audet
·
Feb 29, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors took in consideration all comments and questions raised by the reviewers and editor and provided adequate responses. The manuscript can now be accepted for publication.
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 12, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The revisions have adequately dealt with the suggestions raised during the revision. The paper is acceptable in its current form.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Paper will make an interesting and valuable contribution this emerging area of "bioservices". Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Mussel biofiltration effects on attached bacteria and unicellular eukaryotes in fish-rearing seawater (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1829v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 6, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Céline Audet
·
Jan 18, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Comments from Reviewer 1 were quite pertinent and should be taken into account in a revised version. The authors should also take the following comments into consideration. Results: 1.Some of the numbers presented in the text do not correspond to those present in Tables of Figures. Line 178 – d35 for bacterial OTUs and absence of mention of d35 for Eukaryote OTUs), line 189 (94.9% should be 96.1%). 2.Figure 4 is never mentioned in the Results. Results should be presented first in the Results section before being discussed (move Lines 265-266 in the Results section and add pertinent information). The Discussion is sometimes confusing. It is almost never mentioned whether the presentation of dominant groups refers to control or mussels tanks. Dominant groups are described, but the differences between control and mussels tanks are not really discussed. There should be some discussion about the great variability of bacterial or eukaryote groups over time (changes in number of OTUs or in dominance from one day of sampling to another) and how this may affect the interpretation of data. Edits are needed lines 83 (Delagrange), 143 (Pruesse), 159 (parenthesis to be closed), 170-171 (repetition), 279 (italics missing), 280 “).).”, 347 (are frequent), 479 (Rev Ecol Syst), 505-508 (this reference is not cited in the manuscript), 533-534 (misuse of capital letters), 570 (italics missing), 581 (italics missing), 595-596 (misuse of capital letters), 612 (J Sea), 626 (Oceans Oceanogr), 658-659 (misuse of capital letters),
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 8, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Mussel biofiltration effects on attached bacteria and unicellular eukaryotes in fish rearing seawater (#7946) This is a very interesting study and I applaud the authors for undertaking it. However, before publishing, I would recommend the study needs to be reframed and some additional data presented in order for it to better deliver on its implied end goal, of exploring mitigation potential using biofiltration of particle-associated bacteria and unicellular eukaryote communities to improve the welfare of farmed fish. The manuscript is generally well written so my focus is mainly on conceptual level science. As a disclaimer, I do not have the background to comment on the sequencing and taxonomic analyses, so I have assumed that this has been done correctly, and leave this aspect to other reviewers. The study correctly points out in lines 80-84 the mussels are non-selective and mainly filter particles, based on size. So the study question really should be ‘would a reduction in harmful microbiota, be any different than the proportional reduction of particles within the filtering size range’? This is indirectly addressed through the use of relative abundance and some useful data is presented. However, absolute numbers of one species can remain the same and still show a decrease in relative abundance if other species increase. It is the absolute number of organisms that is more important in the context of infection or toxicological potential. Can the absolute values be teased out of the number of reads? Another issue with relative abundance, is that if a species decreases, another must increase. What is increasing in figure 2, and would this affect the fish? I would recommend that as a minimum, an additional figure be added to the study that shows ether the actual or theoretical particle removal over time based on inflow into the mesocosim, and then discuss the study results in this context. Greater or less than the clearance rate? While the ecological details in the discussion are interesting, much of it does not add to the objectives of the paper. Of greater benefit would be a discussion on whether harmful micro biota are denatured in the mussel feces. If they are not, this could affect the data presented on apparent removal. Another concern is that with a tank as one experimental unit, there are no true replicates. Consequently, there should at least be statistical consideration for repeated measures. Other Line 107. There would be one turnover every hour not a total renewal. You are likely only getting 2/3 new water in the mesocosm per hour. See: Tvinnerein K. & Skybakmoen S. (1989) Water exchange and self-cleaning in <U+FFE0>sh rearing tanks. In: Aquaculture: A biotechnology in progress (ed. by N. De Pauw, E. Jaspers, H. Ackefors & N.Wilkens), pp.1041^1047. European aquaculture Society, Brendena, Belgium.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
See Basic Reporting section
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See Basic Reporting section
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Mussel biofiltration effects on attached bacteria and unicellular eukaryotes in fish-rearing seawater (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1829v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 11, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This is a very interesting, and different, approach to the question of the degree, magnitude and character of bivalve bioremediation. Incorporation of a genomic approach and population shifts adds a considerable dimension to current science
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Well described and repeatable. There are no areas that appear insufficiently described.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Based on the experimental design and supporting statistics, the experiment has been adequately engineered to correspond to the environmental questions posed. Conclusions are not overstated, and the overall use of a genomic approach vs. a standard pathogen challenge provides a new methodology that is likely to be adopted by others looking at such things as integrated aquaculture setting (multitrophic).
Comments for the author
This manuscript is exceptionally well written and is a concise capture of a complex experimental design and genomic investigation. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Mussel biofiltration effects on attached bacteria and unicellular eukaryotes in fish-rearing seawater (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1829v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 2, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
