Review History for Caribbean Bulimulus revisited: physical moves and molecular traces (Mollusca, Gastropoda, Bulimulidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Caribbean Bulimulus revisited: physical moves and molecular traces (Mollusca, Gastropoda, Bulimulidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 3rd, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 24th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on March 2nd, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 2nd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
James Reimer
·
Mar 2, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have gone over the revision, and you have answered the few minor comments well. Therefore, my decision is "Accept". At the same time, I have gone over your manuscript and found many small English corrections; please ensure these are done in the proof stage if not earlier. Please take a look at the attached pdf file and incorporate when you get your author proof.
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 2, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Reimer
·
Feb 24, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers had only very minor comments, primarily related to figures and tables, and I have no additional comments. Therefore, my decision is "minor revision".
label_author_1
Jairo Pinheiro ·
Feb 11, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The present manuscript brings us important information about some gastropods population, non only on its genetic variation, but also with some inferences about the migration of these species of snails through the Caribbean region.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design was carefully prepared and followed with a precious attention to all details, many important and crucial to the molecular biology studies.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings here presented are very important to show us the great diversity of snails species and the wide intra specific variation found in this group of animals. As well as, giving us some idea about the migration occurred turning these species an invading one in sonme countries. So, beyond this, the results may serve as a base to studies on host parasite relationships, once the snails from Bulimulus genus may be used as intermediate host for some larval helminths, allowing us understand the spreading of some diseases as that caused by Angiostrongylus cantonensis and other.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript is valuable and well conducted, The authors should correct the possition of legends and include scale bars to the sanils' figures and maps to improve the quality of the manuscript. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Pinheiro J ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Caribbean Bulimulus revisited: physical moves and molecular traces (Mollusca, Gastropoda, Bulimulidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1836v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 23, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
A useful contribution providing additional sequence data on a difficult group of molluscs. One very minor comment, the caption accompanying Table 2 should make clear reference to the where the information on the codes for each "Putative species" can be found (or better still, list out the binomials). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Caribbean Bulimulus revisited: physical moves and molecular traces (Mollusca, Gastropoda, Bulimulidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1836v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 3, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
