Review History for Analysis of close associations of uropod-associated proteins in human T-cells using the proximity ligation assay [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Analysis of close associations of uropod-associated proteins in human T-cells using the proximity ligation assay To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 28th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 16th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on October 1st, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 2nd, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jim Caunt
·
Oct 2, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Prof. Niggli, Many thanks for your response and clarifications. Many congratulations on your interesting and informative paper: I enjoyed reading it. Have an excellent day!
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 1, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jim Caunt
·
Sep 16, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I agree with the reviewers that this submission is largely clearly written and the experiments justify the conclusions, and that it represents an advance of current knowledge. However, there is a consensus view that a few minor experimental and manuscript points would need to be addressed prior to acceptance for publication, which fall under two main categories. 1. Experimental Though the data look convincing, I agree with reviewer 2 that the inclusion of another negative control comprising the use of two primary antibodies to proteins that do not interact would increase confidence in the data. 2. Manuscript I also agree with reviewer 1 that, although the manuscript is largely well-written, it could do with a proof-read to weed out minor mistakes. Examples here include the one highlighted by reviewer 2, I also noticed: Line 42: remove 'anymore'. Line 48: replace 'allows detection also of' with 'also allows detection of'. Line 115: replace 'We now investigated' with 'In the present study, we have investigated' or 'Here, we have investigated'. I also think some detailed clarification of the image analysis would also be helpful, especially given this is the focus of the paper. For example, in the materials and methods, it says 100 cells per condition were evaluated, but in the text some of the numbers corresponding to total cell number analysed don't tally with this figure (e.g. a total of 261 cells analysed for n=3 in Fig. 4B). Similarly, I think you should indicate if the data are derived from a confocal stack or from a representative optical section (I'm assuming it's the latter, but I'm not sure).
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 13, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Baumann et al. examine pair-wise proximity of proteins, such as flotillin-1 and 2, phosphorylated ERM, PSGL-1 and PIPKI<U+03B3>90, that are important for structuring the uropod during T-cell polarization. Previously, FRET and biochemical approaches have suggested associations among these proteins. However, FRET is based on over-expression while biochemical assays lack spatial information and are prone to post-lysis artifacts. The authors use the Proximity Ligation Assay to investigate associations of the endogenous proteins before and after T-cell stimulation. They find that flotillin-1/flotillin-2, flotillin-2/p-ERM, flotillin-2/PSGL-1 and PIPKI<U+03B3>90/p-ERM complexes pre-exist in un-stimulated cells and become confined in the uropod upon stimulation. The results nicely confirm and extend previous findings. The experiments were performed and interpreted well and presented clearly. While studies on the dynamics of these complexes will be needed to reveal the connections between the preformed complexes and the ones confined in the uropod , as it stands the work presented is an important first step. In addition, whether these associations are part of the same complex or separately co-exist represent an important future direction. For the time being, the authors may simply choose to further discuss these points. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Analysis of close associations of uropod-associated proteins in human T-cells using the proximity ligation assay (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.186v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 9, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is generally well presented and easy to follow. I would recommend careful proof-reading since one or two mistakes are still present eg line 152 Fig1C should be 2C.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The use of the proximity ligation assay (PLA) adds information on the co-localisations seen between flotilins, PSGL-1, ERM and PIPKIgamma90 in the uropod of T-cells. The data presented is convincing as far as it goes; the minimum controls are shown for the the PLA assays (leaving out one of the two antibodies) but it's still difficult to really assess what's required for the PLA assay to give a positive signal eg only beta-actin and flotillin2 are shown as an 'irrelevent pair' and they do show significant interaction.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data are robust with the required number of repetitions and statistical analysis.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall, I think this manuscript makes a modest advance over previous work published by this group and others but does not move us on much conceptually in terms of how close associations between proteins in the uropod are created. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Analysis of close associations of uropod-associated proteins in human T-cells using the proximity ligation assay (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.186v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 28, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
