Review History for Improved ultrastructure of marine invertebrates using non-toxic buffers [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Improved ultrastructure of marine invertebrates using non-toxic buffers To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 11th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 28th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on March 8th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 9th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
James Reimer
·
Mar 9, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have revised their submission well, answering all comments and questions as needed. There are no outstanding issues with regard to this manuscript, and therefore I have reached the decision of 'accept'.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 8, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Reimer
·
Feb 28, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers were very positive in their reviews of your manuscript, only suggesting minor changes. I have added a few additional editorial comments, and thus there are two attachments and a few comments for you to respond to. As well, I have noticed here and there the English needs a bit of work (see my attachment), please ensure that this is gone over very thoroughly before any resubmission. Based on the positive reviews and generally small corrections, my decision is "minor revision".
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Nada Znidarsic ·
Feb 23, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Authors report on the evaluation of preparatory methods used in marine organisms microscopy, speciffically on different buffers implementation in fixation process. The aim is to optimize ultrastructure preservation using methods avilable in field work on ships (sampling in remote locations) and by procedures that omit toxic chemicals as much as possible. They provide clear and sufficient introduction and refer to relevant literature. Figures are of high quality and demostrate the statements in the text. The efforts to optimize samples preparation in microscopy with respect to minimize the toxic impacts of chemicals necessary are valuable for the community and carefull evaluations like this study are a welcome contribution to a broader field of microscopy.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The motivation, background and general framework of the study are presented in a clear and complete manner. The aim of the study is clearly defined and the results reported in the manuscript are answering the presented questions and are discussed thoroughly. Methodologic procedures are described very precisely.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The manuscript includes a sufficient number of micrographs that are of high quality and support the conclusions in the text. Conclusions are clear and the results are extensively discussed, including relevant relation to literature data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The study is conducted carefully and presented in a concise and clear way. Minor comments/suggestions are included in the attached manuscript file. Concerning figure captions: Figs. 2,3,4,5 : maybe better use 'cells' in the title, instead of 'cell'; 2B, 3B, 4B, 5B: ..is a higher magnification of the apical... in general - using arrows at labels (where appropriate) would make labeling more clear for a reader not so familiar with the content; Fig. 5: 'cr' is in the caption, but not used as a label on the figure. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Znidarsic N ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Improved ultrastructure of marine invertebrates using non-toxic buffers (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1860v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Suzanne Dufour ·
Feb 27, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This article is very clearly written. The introduction presents the motivation for the study, and emphasizes the importance of proper fixation of invertebrate tissues, along with the challenges of working in the field or at sea. The authors adequately compare the most commonly used fixatives and buffers, and justify their reasoning for pursuing a non-toxic buffer for use in conjunction with glutaraldehyde fixation. Figures are entirely relevant and of very high quality. Images clearly show the ultrastructural differences that resulted from different fixation protocols. Supplementary information presents micrographs of other invertebrates prepared using the new, PHEM-buffered fixation protocol, helping to demonstate that this technique can be used with excellent results for studying different taxa (including non-marine species). Minor comments: line 99: "Mytilus" should be written in its entirety. line 110-111: add spaces between numbers and units (mM) line 127: "dead specimens" line 141: add space: "1071 m" line 147: add space: "1 um" line 199: "... morphology are visible." line 200: "... in the marCaco..." line 245: "...buffers for electron..." line 268: "...the typical enlarged lysosomes..." line 275: "3000 m"
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors clearly defined the research question and justify how the study fills a knowledge gap. Authors provided detailed information on their methodology that ensure reproducibility by other investigators. line 158-159: what exactly is the image processing to which you refer?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are robust: the images presented (replicate tissue samples processed from the same individuals, but using different fixation treatments) clearly show the advantages of using the PHEM or PBS buffered fixatives over a more toxic alternative that is more commonly used (sodium cacodylate buffered fixative), and over fixation using filtered seawater as a buffer. PHEM-buffered fixation produces similar results to PBS-buffered fixation, but membrane preservation is slightly improved using the former technique. This study presents researchers with attractive, non-toxic alternatives to traditionally used electron microscopy buffers.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This article was a real pleasure to read. I found it clear, informative, and well referenced. I appreciated the table presenting the osmolarity of different solutions, and how the figures allowed the reader to directly compare the results of different fixation procedures. Like the authors, I was surprised by the outcome, and am now convinced that non-toxic buffers are the way to go with marine invertebrate sample preservation for ultrastructural work. Cite this review as
Dufour S ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Improved ultrastructure of marine invertebrates using non-toxic buffers (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1860v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 11, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
