Review History for Investigation of the effects of estrogen on skeletal gene expression during zebrafish larval head development [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Investigation of the effects of estrogen on skeletal gene expression during zebrafish larval head development To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 17th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 29th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on March 10th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 11th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joan Heath
·
Mar 11, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your revisions to the text of the manuscript are satisfactory and your responses to all the matters raised by the reviewers are adequate.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 10, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joan Heath
·
Feb 29, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both reviewers have recommended revisions to your paper. These revisions largely concern the way you have interpreted the data presented, rather than the way the experiments have been conducted. Accordingly, I ask that you take their comments seriously and provide a considered response. For your manuscript to be accepted, you may either come back with a satisfactory rebuttal for why you think all your conclusions are valid, or you must revise your interpretation and conclusions in several places, as recommended by the reviewers. I have marked the manuscript as requiring major revision so that you are aware that the requested modifications are important and that the manuscript requires quite substantial re-writing in parts. Please note, however, that although Referee 2 mentions that RNAseq analysis would have provided an unbiased and more comprehensive analysis of E2 target genes, we do not expect you to conduct this experiment.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 18, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The introduction and background were interesting and gave me an appropriate context for why identifying estrogen-dependent genes would be important.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The q-RT-PCR was done with appropriate controls, including internal control genes that are constant across stages and experimental conditions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In the Cohen et al 2014 study, it was shown that higher levels of E2 result in markedly less cartilage in the zebrafish face. Thus, examination of whole heads at this higher dose may lead to skewed results if the number of cartilage cells per total tissue is less in the high E2 condition versus control. In other words, a reduction of cartilage genes (e.g. sox9) could be attributed to either regulation of sox9 transcription, or alternatively just to the fact that cartilage cells now represent a smaller fraction of overall cells. The discussion should acknowledge this possibility. In particular, the finding that a number of genes are found to be slightly decreased by E2 could represent such an indirect effect of cel proportions. While I found that increase in esr1 and co-regulated genes to be strongly supported, the variable and minor decreases of other genes were not as clear. For example, cartilage/skeletal differentiation is not much different between 4-6 days, so why should certain genes be slightly reduced at only a subset of these stages? I think a more conservative assessment of these slight expression changes should be made, especially when consistent changes are not seen across multiple stages. Also, sox9a and not sox9b is the major gene implicated in chondrogenesis in zebrafish, so I don't think analysis of sox9b is appropriate.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Investigation of the effects of estrogen on skeletal gene expression during zebrafish larval head development (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1878v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this manuscript, the authors carefully validated reference genes for RT-qPCR during larval development and examined expression profiles of 39 genes in the dissected zebrafish larval head.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Major points 1.The authors claim that they identified E2 regulated genes during the development of craniofacial skeletal structures. One caveat to the accuracy of their results is that the isolated zebrafish head contains brain, eyes, ears, muscle, and possibly heart depending on how reproducibly the dissection was done, in addition to craniofacial skeletal structures. It is likely that at least some of the selected candidate genes are also expressed in one or more of the tissues mentioned above, in addition to craniofacial skeletal structures. Therefore the measured expression profiles for the 39 genes may not correspond perfectly to those in the craniofacial skeletal structures. It is possible that some of the smaller changes in gene expression that are observed, while being statistically significant, may be due to inconsistencies between samples. This should be mentioned in the Discussion. Instead of using the entire head, the study would have been superior if dissected pharyngeal cartilages had been used. 2.Instead of using a candidate gene RT-qPCR approach, RNA-seq experiments would have identified estrogen-mediated genes in an unbiased and more comprehensive fashion. Again, this should be mentioned in the Discussion.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
3.The authors highlighted genes with a stronger inductive response to the lower dose (2 micromolar) of E2, but didn’t discuss the possible mechanisms for this. Was the intermediate level of E2 (5 micromolar) thought to be toxic?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Minor points 1.Line 143, a quick search on the COXPRSESdb came up with 338 candidate genes, not 339 as shown in the manuscript. 2.Line 144 and Table S1 (qPCR Primer sequences and information about esr1 co-expressed genes) cpn1 and cyr61 are not on the co-expressed gene list of 338 candidates. 3.Line 223, only 27 (not 28 as stated in the manuscript) genes were listed in Table 1 4.Line 231, spp1 is in Fig4, but not listed in the manuscript 5.Prepositions “in” and “at” appear interchangeably as follows: “in the last three stages”, “at the last stages” several times. Perhaps use “at the last stages” for consistency. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Investigation of the effects of estrogen on skeletal gene expression during zebrafish larval head development (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1878v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 17, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
