Review History for Transformative optimisation of agricultural land use to meet future food demands [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Transformative optimisation of agricultural land use to meet future food demands To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 18th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 5th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on September 19th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 8th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Gavin Stewart
·
Oct 8, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your response to the reviewers questions have addressed substantive concerns and improved the manuscript. Thank you for engaging positively with the peer review process.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 19, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Gavin Stewart
·
Sep 5, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please respond to the reviewers comments by amending the manuscript. Respond positively where you are able and include discussion of the issue where you disagree with views expressed by the reviewers. I draw particular attention to the issue of scale identified by reviewer two and exchangeability (fungability?) by reviewer three. Please ensure that there is appropriate discussion of the potential impacts of both on your conclusions.
label_author_1
Nicola Randall ·
Aug 20, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Please could the authors clarify the following? How is the optimal yield for each crop/land area calculated & what assumptions are made/what factors are taken into account? What countries/regions are included in Figure 1? Is it all regions (including western Europe, Canada, US etc. as Figures 3&4 appear to show, or only the 'food insecure' regions specified in Figure 2? Also, the data set used for 'current' land use appears to be 13 years old. Are the authors aware of how land-use/farming systems may have changed in any regions during that period & of any impacts said changes may have on their results/conclusions?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This is an interesting concept, the implications of which are perhaps oversimplified in the conclusions. Although the authors recognise that there may be limitations to optimisation, I am concerned that as it stands at the moment some of the most important practical limitations (and potential impacts) are not acknowledged, and need to be discussed. These include limitations caused by water scarcity (and any potential impacts of the proposed model on water security), any requirement for rotations to manage productivity, trade limitations/impacts, environmental impacts & any impact on nutritional deficiencies. I am unsure whether the statement in the final sentence is directly relevant to the findings and would be more comfortable with conclusions that encouraged elements of the optimisation approach to be adopted where feasible.
Cite this review as
Randall NP ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Transformative optimisation of agricultural land use to meet future food demands (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.188v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Stuart Pimm ·
Jul 27, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I must stress that I am not an expert on agricultural ecosystems or crop yields and what constrains them. That said, I'm interested in global environmental issues and understand both estimates of production and diversity that form the core of this paper. I accepted the chance to review this manuscript because I have followed the senior author's work closely and admire his creative approaches to many problems. This manuscript addresses a disarmingly simple question: can we grow more crops if we adjusted the mix to maximise productivity. The answers answer an emphatic "yes" for cereals while improvements for oilseeds are much smaller. All that said, the most interesting aspects are why countries have not optimised productivity. The authors suggest a variety of possibilities. At the risk of asking them to expand a paper that is short and to the point, it seems that a more complete examination of what limits optimal production is warranted. 1. I consider the issue of spatial scale in the next section. 2. Would an optimal production lead to greater profits for the farmers? And to what extent are allocations driven by national subsidies? 3. Crop diversity is important. I found figures 3 and 4 to be most informative. Clearly most production is either close to optimal diversity or exceeds it considerably. The USA and China, for example, would need to move towards much less diverse croplands if they were to improve cereal production. Spain would need to become a cereal crop monoculture, for example. 4. Large food producers are unlikely to wish to modify current allocations to feed other countries. I would like to see the improvements of production ranked by the net balance of food exports and imports. Could food importers avoid such dependency? And at what cost in terms of crop specialization?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1. My first worry is about scale. 10 x 10km is fine scale, certainly, but I'd like to be reassured that the following possibility is excluded. For such a pixel, quite possibly irrigated rice may attain the highest productivity within a small piece of that. Extrapolating such productivity across the pixel may be impossible. Just think of what happens along the Nile, for example, where one can stand with one foot in very productive crops and the other in desert. Yes, irrigated rice is more productive than rainfed wheat, but that doesn't mean one can grow rice everywhere within the pixel. 2. The largest changes proposed would be to replace maize with wheat in Central Africa — for a huge increase in production — and to reduce wheat in China, but grow more rice. The authors mention these changes (page 5), but do not further investigate why the changes haven't been made. Water may well prevent rice from replacing wheat in China, and soil nutrients (and water) may well prevent wheat from replacing maize in Africa, especially one considers the scale issues I have already mentioned. The way to investigate these possibilities is to examine a sample of pixels that seem particularly suboptimal —where, for example, rice production is high per unit area within the pixel, but only a small fraction of the pixel grows rice. If that's an irrigation issue, then the authors need to assess how large an error this causes.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See concerns expressed above.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I view this as being most interesting as a way of documenting what the limitations are to increased production. The bottom line — substantial improvements — are subject to many caveats. The value of this manuscript is to list what some of them are. Cite this review as
Pimm SL ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Transformative optimisation of agricultural land use to meet future food demands (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.188v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
William Laurance ·
Jul 25, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article is clearly written, interesting, and well prepared. The figures support the reported conclusions. A few points of clarification are needed: 1) Introduction, line 1: According to the UN Population Division, the human population exceeded 7 billion in October 2012 (on Halloween, notably, although this is obviously just an approximation). 2) Introduction, on the assumption of the fungibility of crops: Obviously, this is quite a large assumption in the context of the present analysis. One could imagine lots of reasons for farmers electing to have multiple crops, ranging from balancing their dietary requirements to bet-hedging against crop-specific pathogens, weather, and crop-price fluctuations. Some brief discussion of this later in the paper would be warranted. 3) Results section: One point on which I was not clear was crop transport. Some crops might be produced near to where their demand is concentrated, even if that locale is suboptimal. Is this factored into the analysis? I presume not. Again, this might be mentioned briefly in the Discussion.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The design of the analysis is effective and well considered, and falls within the scope of the journal. The paper contains a great deal of interesting analysis and interpretation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
My sense is that the analyses are reasonably robust and effectively interpreted, using the best available information and data sets at hand. The conclusions seem broadly justified by the analyses, notwithstanding the need for some minor points of clarification as indicated above.
Comments for the author
I found much of interest in this paper. It is appropriately framed as a sort of thought experiment, and addresses some very big and important questions. Cite this review as
Laurance W ( 2013 ) Peer Review #3 of "Transformative optimisation of agricultural land use to meet future food demands (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.188v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 18, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
