Review History for The macroevolution of size and complexity in insect male genitalia [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The macroevolution of size and complexity in insect male genitalia To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 25th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 26th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on March 5th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 12th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Leon Higley
·
Mar 12, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for your close attention to the reviewers comments. I think the revised manuscript reads well, and presents an intriguing story.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 5, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Leon Higley
·
Feb 26, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers had minor corrections, and I'm confident these minor points can be addressed quickly. If you can address these, we can move forward with the publication process.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 10, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper meets the standards.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This paper uses a comprehensive phylogeny of one beetle genus, to address the evolution of genital size and complexity. The goals are clearly stated and are relevant. Methods are well described, but I do have some suggestions: (1) The size of the images of genitalia in Figure 1 is unavoidably small. Therefore, I think that including a few images at larger resolution, indicating how measurements were done, as supplementary files, would be needed, particularly for future work which try to use similar methods. (2) Line 136. How much was the burn-in period?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data are included as supplementary files
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Some minor comments: (3) Lines 62-65. I wonder how different are species in other characters rather than genitalia. Does the subgenus Bilimneus include species which can be labelled as cryptic? Are these species diferentiated by ecology or behaviour? (4) Line 106. The web page for ImageJ has been already included in line 100. (5) The scale of images in Figure 1 refers to the size of the aedeagus of the largest species, but it is unclear to me what this mean... (6) Figure 2. There are open and closed dots, which are not explained (7) A general question. Is there information on how female genitalia differs between species? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The macroevolution of size and complexity in insect male genitalia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1882v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 26, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Clear and appropriate
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Clearly validated
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
An interesting paper, extending our understanding of a significant evolutionary topic. My only suggestion is that the take-home messages could be better summarized in two places - the end of the abstract, and the conclusions section at the end. Both of these as currently written could be a little difficult to follow for a general reader (who will, I suspect, be interested in such a paper). Specifically: "...The origin of the larger variation in Limnebius s.str. seems to be the significantly larger average and variance of the reconstructed values of change in the individual branches of the tree for all measured variables, except for the average change in genital length, not significantly different between the two subgenera." should be rewritten. e.g. 'translate' "significantly larger average and variance of the reconstructed values of change in the individual branches of the tree for all measured variables" into something which is less 'statistical' and more 'biological'. Similarly I think the conclusion should be revisited. Such changes make the overall message more accessible in my opinion. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "The macroevolution of size and complexity in insect male genitalia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1882v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 25, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
