Review History for Spillover of a biological control agent (Chrysolina quadrigemina) onto native St. Johnswort (Hypericum punctatum) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Spillover of a biological control agent ( Chrysolina quadrigemina ) onto native St. Johnswort ( Hypericum punctatum ) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 16th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 1st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on March 11th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 13th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Karen Esler
·
Mar 13, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am satisfied with your responses to the queries raised by the reviewers, thank you.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 11, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Karen Esler
·
Feb 1, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This paper has particular value in addressing non-target impacts associated with biological control. Please respond to the comments and suggested revisions by the two reviewers, who were both very positive about your paper, but had some good suggestions/questions of clarity.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 25, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This study examined whether a biocontrol agent had switched to a congeneric of the invasive species it was introduced to control. The study contains both surveys and experimental aspects, which I liked. I also liked that the study didn’t just assess whether the biocontrol is attacking the native species but also assessed whether the biocontrol was having an effect on the native species’ distribution. The paper is well communicated for the most part and there was little that I queried from an understanding point of view.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I think that some of the experiments suffered from low sample size, which would have affected their ability to detect significant effects. But otherwise, I have no issues with things like pseudoreplication.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I also thought that the models should have been more completely explained (for example, we are not informed of how much variance the models explain). The fits didn't look great, so I think that sort of information should be provided.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I thought that the study had a slightly simplistic approach to biocontrol and that perhaps this would be remedied with just a few lines about indirect effects that biocontrol can have – e.g. apparent competition (see Carvalheiro et al. 2008) or the creation of resources by biological control agents (see Seymour & Veldtman 2010), as ecology is far more complicated than simply one species interacting with another, other species are affected. As ecologists, we need to consider the entire context. But otherwise, thank you, I enjoyed this paper. Specific comments Abstract Needs to mention where this study takes place! Methods Line 92 – the sample size (n=14) strikes me as a little small – see if this reflects in the results… Line 111 – I take it you mean random effect by “random spatial block”. Is this a random slope, random intercept or random slope and intercept model that you settled on in the end? Lines 149-151 – I’m sure this is easily explained but I couldn’t understand how you had five different forest edges but then you list 11 different blocks. Could you just clarify this? Line 173 – the three level fraction makes no sense to me, would it be possible to rather use mathematical notation to communicate how you calculated this? Results Line 182 – insert comma before “fig 2a” Lines 184-187 – this information about Wilson scores and performance of Clopper Pearson etc. should rather appear in the methods section. Lines 188-191 – your methods say that you performed mixed models on your transect data but then you do not report on the significance of these relationships? I cannot tell if 21% damage is significantly lower than 27% damage, made more difficult by the fact that standard deviations are not reported. The models used to assess damage by species and at different distances to forest edge SHOULD tell you if one species received significantly more damage than the other because species is one of your explanatory variables, and you account for distance in the model. Line 190 – when you speak of transect experiment, is this the survey you did, and not an actual experiment? Line 201 – Is it possible that you do not detect an effect in the sun/shade experiment owing to small sample size? Line 232 –beetle damage to leaves might mean a larger effect on flower production or seed set of one Hypericum over the other? So a more indirect effect of herbivory is also possible? Line 287 – I think also some mention of other issues – i.e. not direct transfer from one host to another, but indirect interactions are often ignored or not thought of. Ecology is complicated and perturbations seldom affect only one (target) species. I think this is an important point to make – see, e.g. about apparent competition (see e.g. Carvalheiro et al. 2008) and about creating resources for species that ordinarily would not have had these (see, e.g. Seymour and Veldtman 2010), and thus changing the invertebrate community overall: Carvalheiro, L. G., Y. M. Buckley, R. Ventim, S. V Fowler, and J. Memmott. 2008. Apparent competition can compromise the safety of highly specific biocontrol agents. Ecology letters 11:690–700. Seymour, C. L., and R. Veldtman. 2010. Ecological role of control agent, and not just host-specificity, determine risks of biological control. Austral Ecology 35:704–711. Figures I thought figure 2a was perhaps not necessary, given that this is reported in the text already. Also, the standard deviations on the figures appeared to be the same size as each other, in both figs 2b and 2c, is this correct? Figure 3b – the data look rather messy relative to the fitted line, can you tell us how much variation is explained by these models? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Spillover of a biological control agent (Chrysolina quadrigemina) onto native St. Johnswort (Hypericum punctatum) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1886v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Ruan Veldtman ·
Feb 1, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Basic reporting is more than sufficient, and I only have a few minor comments: In line 28 please state where has the exotic weed been successfully controlled. Lines 89 and 126 - what is the percentage shading of the shade tent? Line 260 - please give the Genus name of the thistle species.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The manuscript has several experiments that were conducted. I do not find any flaws in any of the experiments done. Just two comments: Lines 84-85, were beetles collected from either the native or the exotic equal in number and were individuals for each trial randomly chosen? Please elaborate. In line 181, why were only 25 assays done and not 50, to strengthen the power of the said analysis?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I find the findings of the manuscript to be valid. Only two comments: Lines 300-302, experiment to exclude herbivores only reduced herbivory and did not completely exclude it. This could have resulted in a lack of a difference in plant growth between exclusion and control. Please consider this in discussion. If native congeners of target weeds are "considered" and found to be either eaten or oviposited on by the biological control agent, why are there still cases where the agent is released? How is the expected impact on the target weed gauged prior to release?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Nice study that has entailed much work. Good to see more information on the contentious issue of non-target impacts. Cite this review as
Veldtman R ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Spillover of a biological control agent (Chrysolina quadrigemina) onto native St. Johnswort (Hypericum punctatum) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1886v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 16, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
