Review History for Connecting laboratory behavior to field function through stable isotope analysis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Connecting laboratory behavior to field function through stable isotope analysis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 12th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 13th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on March 19th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 19th, 2016. Notes
Before submission to PeerJ, this article was externally reviewed at Axios Review . The Academic Editor for the article was provided with the Axios reviews and used them in his decision making.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mark Hay
·
Mar 19, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for your revision. The MS is now acceptable for publication. Congratulations
External reviews were received for this submission. These reviews were used by the Editor when they made their decision, and can be downloaded below. Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter Download external reviews
- submitted Mar 19, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mark Hay
·
Mar 13, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
In addition to the reviews you supplied from Axios, I asked for an additional review from an expert on stable isotopes (Reviewer #1). That reviewer found your manuscript to be of interest and scientifically sound. There are, however, some modest issues that need your attention before acceptance. Please see the reviewer's specific comments and address those in a quick revision. That reviewer also suggests one additional contrast to make using your data. I find that suggestion reasonable, but will allow you to include that contrast, or not, at your discretion.
label_author_1
Joseph Montoya ·
Mar 11, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a clearly-written paper that presents an interesting test of relationships between isotopically measured trophic position and behavior in crayfish.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I'm not an expert in behavioral studies of this sort, but the behavioral assays seem reasonable to me. The isotopic measurements and mixing models are appropriate for the questions asked.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings, as presented, appear robust. I do wonder why the authors didn't look at the potential relationship between diet type (not just TL) and agonistic behavior. They have the data and may have already done so, but it seems to me that animals that differ in aggression might exploit different types of food resource.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This paper describes an interesting mix of behavioral and isotopic work and Glon et al. are correct that this appears to be a novel approach of potentially broad application. Although their primary result was a negative one (no association between agonistic behavior and trophic position), this paper should be of interest to both behavioral ecologists and isotope ecologists with an interest in freshwater systems. I suggest looking at the interaction between diet type (snail vs mussel food webs) and agonistic behavior, or at least mentioning the results of that comparison if it's already been done. I do have a number of specific comments suggestions for the authors, which are detailed below. Specific Comments Materials and Methods Lines 188-189: this system will provide d13C values along with the d15N measurements. Why not construct a mixing model for 13C as another index to food sources? Line 198: The eqn for TP is incorrect as written – SPP values have to be divided by 100 for this to work. Results Lines 215-216: I don't understand the sentence that begins "Our mixing model…" The mixing model simply allows you to estimate the relative contribution to crayfish tissues of the two isotopically distinct end members. Or did I miss something here? Lines 227-228: What about dietary type? Is there any association between dominance and the types of food (not TL, but rather food derived from the benthic vs planktonic sources) consumed? Discussion Lines 267-268: Did TL scale with animal size? This is a useful test since larger animals should have access to a broader range of potential pretty. OK, I now see that you address this in lines 578-579, but this is an important point that should be mentioned in the main body of the paper. Figures and Tables Figure 2: This crossplot shows very nice separation of the three species, but the axis labels are too small for easy legibility. Figure 3: Here again, the axis labels are far too small. Cite this review as
Montoya J ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Connecting laboratory behavior to field function through stable isotope analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1918v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 12, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
