Review History for Macromammalian faunas, biochronology and palaeoecology of the early Pleistocene Main Quarry hominin-bearing deposits of the Drimolen Palaeocave System, South Africa [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Macromammalian faunas, biochronology and palaeoecology of the early Pleistocene Main Quarry hominin-bearing deposits of the Drimolen Palaeocave System, South Africa To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 6th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 23rd, 2016. The first revision was submitted on March 24th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 25th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
William Jungers
·
Mar 25, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your careful attention to reviewer comments and suggestions.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 24, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
William Jungers
·
Mar 23, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Although the reviewer suggestions are few and relatively minor, they still need to be considered in your revision prior to publication. The point about "precision" of measurement is well taken.
label_author_1
Darryl de Ruiter ·
Mar 15, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors state in both the Introduction (lines 145-14) and in the Materials and Methods (lines 181-185) that they are not discussing the carnivores and primates from Drimolen. This is understandable given that they are published elsewhere, but we could probably cut out some of this duplication. The authors occasionally present measurements to the hundredth of a millimeter (e.g. table 3 and throughout the text). I realize that this is a pet peeve of mine, but I seriously doubt that even Mitutoyo calipers are really reliable and replicable at the scale of tens of microns. For instance, as I am writing I see a measurement on line 998 of 17.06 mm for an Orycteropus radius; is this really 17.06 mm, or could it be 17.05 mm or even 17.04 mm? The difference of course is trivial, but I always doubt such instances of hyper-precise measurements. In lines 1088-1104 the authors discuss 4 hypotheses relating to the identification of a Dinofelis specimen and its importance for the age estimate of the site. These hypotheses result in younger age estimates for the site ranging from 1.98 to 1.89-1.63 to 1.6 Ma. In the following paragraph the authors summarily state that the younger age estimate is 1.98 Ma without stating why this is the preferred hypothesis. More discussion is needed to support this age estimate. The authors state the only DMQ and Kromdraai A have large samples of A. recki. However, Coopers D also has a large sample of A. recki fossils (12 individuals; de Ruiter et al., 2009 JHE 56: 497-513). Otherwise, the paper is clearly written and well illustrated. The figures and tables are appropriate and necessary to document the assemblage.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The research design of this paper is appropriate for the material being discussed. The authors provide an excellent summary of the history of excavation of the cave, and the best discussion of the geological formation of the cave that I have yet seen. The research question is clearly stated, relevant, and meaningful. The methods are easily replicable. The investigation was conducted rigorously and to a high technical standard.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings presented in this report are appropriate and valid, and the data are robust. The conclusions are appropriately stated, and are supported by the evidence presented throughout the paper. This paper presents a great deal of new information not available elsewhere, while also incorporating relevant prior publications on Drimolen.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Line 31-32: In the abstract, I would state the DNH 7 is the most complete skull of P. robustus ever found, not just cranium Line 97: “that often grade . . . “ Line 536: it was my understanding that Vrba 1977 referred SK 3211b to Rabaticeras porrocornutus, not Numidocapra. Is there another reference that should be here? Line 1014: “of a newer, older deposit . . . .” Line 1099: …would likely indicate deposition before 1.98 Ma . . . “ Cite this review as
de Ruiter DJ ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Macromammalian faunas, biochronology and palaeoecology of the early Pleistocene Main Quarry hominin-bearing deposits of the Drimolen Palaeocave System, South Africa (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1941v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 21, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a well-written report on the non-primate fauna at Drimolen. Introduction and Discussion include relevant literature. Figures and tables present relevant information. I have some small comments in the attached annotated PDF. One very minor detail is to be consistent throughout in the discussion of the non-hominid primates.....they are not really "published", as mentioned in the Materials and Methods. There are a couple of typos (spell-check insists on turning Koobi Fora into Koobi For a) that need to be corrected, but otherwise the MS is very clean.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experimental Design is straightforward description and discussion of biochronological implications. This is done very well.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Findings appear valid based on the information and data presented.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a very nice article that requires little revision, in my opinion. A few minor comments are provided in an annotated PDF. However, I must admit that I am not an expert in Carnivores or Bovids, the main groups focused on in the article and perhaps the most important in terms of biochronology, so I would weight any suggested edits/comments from experts in these fields a bit more heavily than my own. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Macromammalian faunas, biochronology and palaeoecology of the early Pleistocene Main Quarry hominin-bearing deposits of the Drimolen Palaeocave System, South Africa (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1941v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 6, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
