Review History for Testing the potential of a ribosomal 16S marker for DNA metabarcoding of insects [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Testing the potential of a ribosomal 16S marker for DNA metabarcoding of insects To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 14th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 30th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on March 31st, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 3rd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alexander Mikheyev
·
Apr 3, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I believe that all the authors deal with all of the minor changes satisfactorily.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 31, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alexander Mikheyev
·
Mar 30, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers were unanimous in their enthusiasm for the study. They raise a number of fairly small issues that can be dealt with in the course of a minor revision.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The text is clear, unambiguous and basic reporting accords with the requirements.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
L30 “Rough estimation of biomass might thus be less biased with 16S than with COI”. Based on table S3, it’s hard to agree with that statement. In general, PCR-based metabarcoding studies can’t make assessments about biomass.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This paper adds useful information about alternative metabarcoding primers for insects, also outlining the problems using 16S instead of COI. How to explain the hits not belonging to the 52 mock taxa? For example, soil and litter associated collembolans found from streams and ponds? Table S2. Does the nr 17 in cell D2 means that F0 primer (with R4?) resulted in 17 Ephemerella mucronata OTUs with 97% sequence similarity threshold? The authors constructed a reference 16S library for the used morphotaxa. Was the barcoding gap tried to establish? Some taxa in Table S1 are conisdered as hits for the mock community based on 10% sequence dissimilarity? Isn't it too high for 16S? L118 - what was the minimum number of reads per sample? L 175 "Additionally the short length of the 16S marker used facilitates amplification, which is important when dealing with degraded DNA or eDNA.” - this applies also for COI mini-barcodes. L 206 - too long sentence, hard to follow the idea. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Testing the potential of a ribosomal 16S marker for DNA metabarcoding of insects (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1966v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Laurence Clarke ·
Mar 22, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
A little more information should be provided in the introduction to set the context for the study. Simlarly, a bit more info in the Material and Methods would make the manuscript more 'self-contained' (see comments below for both).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The study shows using a 16S metabarcoding marker improves the success rate for detection of insect taxa, with read abundances closer to the expected values compared to using the Folmer COI primers. Overall, it provides robust data and recommendations that should make a valuable contribution for the metabarcoding community. My main criticism would be that the Folmer primers are somewhat of a ‘straw man’, in that several papers have already demonstrated the poor taxonomic coverage and PCR bias of these primers, including Clarke et al. (2014), Piñol et al. (2014), and the Elbrecht & Leese (2015) paper that this study builds upon. Although the current study provides a comparison with an alternative marker (16S), the performance of several COI and 16S primers for metabarcoding insects was compared in silico and in vitro by Clarke et al. (2014). The introduction should include a statement on how the current study differs from theirs. Adding some information to the Materials and Methods would make this manuscript ‘stand-alone’ better from Elbrecht & Leese (2015). For example, ‘the mixtures were comprised of equal amounts of tissue (by dry weight) from 52 taxa’. I would also mention the number of PCR cycles (30?) L81-82: Here and elsewhere the authors refer to the availability of 16S (and COI) reference sequences. Although it can be inferred from Figure 1, it would be useful to state the number of taxa for which reference data were available on GenBank/NCBI versus those where sequences needed to be generated de novo, especially for 16S, if not for COI as well. L130-131: I guess you cannot comment on the presence of mismatches for the metazoans, especially those that you couldn’t generate Sanger sequences. L183-185: It would be useful to refer to the results of the study here. For example, providing the two ranges of the number of the 42 insect taxa not detected in each replicate for COI versus 16S would indicate the percentage of taxa that might be missed in metabarcoding studies using the Folmer primers alone. L186-187: Many degenerate COI primers are already being used for metabarcoding, e.g. Leray et al. (2013) Frontiers in Zoology 10:34. It should be made clear that the efficacy of these primers really needs to be tested, as they may provide the combination of reference data and reduced PCR bias needed for the successful application of DNA metabarcoding. L189-192: It seems to me that, depending on the available sequence data, the accuracy of species-level assignments for Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera and Trichoptera could be easily established by in silico PCR, which would be much less expensive and time-consuming than mitochondrial genome sequencing. Minor comments L42: Suggest ‘well-designed universal PCR primers for the target group are…’ L97: What is ‘Blast API’? L98-100: The percentage identities could be supplied in a supplementary table for transparency. L154: Does ‘dual sequencing strategy’ refer to paired-end sequencing? L202: Make it clear that you found less primer bias for one 16S marker compared to one COI marker, as this may not be the case for degenerate COI primers. Figure 1. The Venn diagram could be redrawn to provide a better visual indication that the majority of taxa were detected with both markers. Cite this review as
Clarke L ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Testing the potential of a ribosomal 16S marker for DNA metabarcoding of insects (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1966v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Nathan Bott ·
Mar 29, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Elbrecht et al discuss the potential for the use of ribosomal 16S marker for the DNA metabarcoding of insects. The manuscript is generally well conceived and written. I only have minor comments about the manuscript. Line 63: The used 16S markers seems a strange use of words. Suggest change to We used. Also were those primers developed as part of this study or from a previous study? It is not entirely clear. Line 72: what brand of magnetic beads? AmPure or another? Line 82: Change to the 52 morphotaxa used in this study Line 130: change to present. Also is it possible that the mismatches are due to sequencing error, or is there sequence heterogeneity known for this gene? Line 152: This is the first time the authors discuss MiSeq vs NextSeq, I suggest they either incorporate this into the introduction or re-word here. Line 180: remove extra period Line 182: remove at the present Line 196: These instead of this
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Well designed and entirely appropriate for the nature of the study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Findings are valid. Conclusions are appropriate. It would also be useful if the authors discussed in some more detail the poor recovery of other metazoans (i.e. Table 1). The comments about sequencing mitogenomes are salient points and worthy of further investigation.
Cite this review as
Bott N ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "Testing the potential of a ribosomal 16S marker for DNA metabarcoding of insects (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.1966v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 14, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
