Review History for Iodine nutrition and toxicity in Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) larvae [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Iodine nutrition and toxicity in Atlantic cod ( Gadus morhua ) larvae To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 20th, 2012 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 20th, 2012. The first revision was submitted on January 2nd, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 8th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Linsheng Song
·
Jan 8, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript is well revised and can be accepted for PeerJ. Thanks.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 2, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Linsheng Song
·
Dec 20, 2012
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript is well written and orgnized. The experiments were conducted in an appropriate manner and data were moderately well presented. It is potentially interesting for researches on iodine nutrition and toxicity in cod larvae. As the reviewers suggested, some tables and figures in the manuscript should be improved.
label_author_1
Karin PITTMAN ·
Dec 19, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a well-written and timely article based on a robust experimental design and thorough analyses. Unfortunately the manuscript mentions two Tables that were not included in the files I received. The figures are all relevant although the figure legends could have been more specific about how many separate figures were meant to be embraced by the figure legend (please insert something like "Fig. 2 A-G" at the beginning of the legend). Otherwise the manuscript is of very high intellectual and technical standards. Minor point: line 226-228 uses the word sample 4 times.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design was clearly stated and reproducible by those wishing to expend the energy. It was clearly suitable for the question. All standards and codes of conduct have been adhered to. The description of the radiography and especially measurement of the neck angle is too brief to be useful (1.5 lines), although the results of this analysis are mentioned in Discussion. I also had a small question about how the number of follicles was counted (lookup sections?). Only one other question arose in my mind, regarding the admixture of rotifers from Control and High iodine enrichments to create a Medium Iodine diet. I can see no suggestion of selectivity by the cod larvae, which would have resulted in high variations for that group, so this may not be important at all.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are comprehensively given and analysed. The mortality of one tank changed some of the statistical analyses but this is a minor point. The findings are justified and are put into several relevant contexts: that of dietary requirements and interactions, that of source of water used to rear the larvae (recirculation, wellwater or seawater) and that of longterm effects. It might be interesting to have a line or two about synthesis of thyroid hormones in other organs than the thyroid follicles (it happens in fish) and what the "gross signs" of iodine deficiency would be in larvae (line 377).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Nice work. I like the clear statement about iodine requirements and the codicil about nutrient interactions. It would be useful to have the two missing tables, therefore I am recommending "Minor revisions". Cite this review as
PITTMAN K ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Iodine nutrition and toxicity in Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) larvae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.20v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 13, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_2
the manuscript is well written and organized properly
Experimental design
label_ed_2
yes
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
yes
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript describes effect of Iodine on Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) larvae. Overall, the manuscript is well written and organized properly, I think the manuscript is suitable for the journal of “The PeerJ” at current status. Herein, the comments and suggestions are given below in an attempt to improve the paper. 1) In the abstract section, the sentence “larval Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) were fed rotifers enriched to intermediate (26 mg I kg -1 dry weight; MI group) or copepod (129 mg I kg -1 DW; HI group) I levels and compared to cod larvae fed control rotifers (0.6mg I kg -1 DW).” should be revised. I could not find any evidence you used copepod for feed trial in Material and method section. 2) the manuscript contained so many Figures, I recommend the author should be integrated some of them together. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Iodine nutrition and toxicity in Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) larvae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.20v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 20, 2012 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
