Review History for A low dose of an organophosphate insecticide causes dysbiosis and sex-dependent responses in the intestinal microbiota of the Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A low dose of an organophosphate insecticide causes dysbiosis and sex-dependent responses in the intestinal microbiota of the Japanese quail ( Coturnix japonica ) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 21st, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 11th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on March 24th, 2016 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 12th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Hauke Smidt
·
Apr 12, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The much improved manuscript has been evaluated by myself and one of the reviewers of the initial submission, and we both felt that you very well responded to all issues raised by reviewers initially.
label_author_1
Richard Ducatelle ·
Apr 12, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors have responded correctly to all my remarks
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors now have described their experimental design correctly. The design is indeed O.K.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are useful for researchers working in this field
Cite this review as
Ducatelle R ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "A low dose of an organophosphate insecticide causes dysbiosis and sex-dependent responses in the intestinal microbiota of the Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2002v0.2/reviews/3 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 24, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Hauke Smidt
·
Mar 11, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
All reviewers agreed in their support of your study as an important and interesting contribution to elucidating the effects that pesticide residues can have on wildlife health. Nevertheless, they also make a number of detailed suggestion in order to deal with important issues regarding experimental design, data analysis and data interpretation.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 19, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is well written and includes sufficient background in order to comprehend the goal of the experiment. Figures are clear and all data relevant to the hypothesis are included.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question is clearly defined and methods are described in detail.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Statistical analysis has been performed and the conclusions made are connected to the inital investigation question
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Some minor remarks line 110: include the use 'of' antibiotics line 113: grouped 4 to a cage... this is unclear to me line 115: change ab into ad line 121: what is the age of an adult quail? line 132: it is not clear how the 12µg of trichlorfon was calculated line 142: can the faecal samples be linked to the bird? Clarify this plural of bacterium is bacteria: change accordingly change along the tekst: impact on microbiota instead of in microbiota Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "A low dose of an organophosphate insecticide causes dysbiosis and sex-dependent responses in the intestinal microbiota of the Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2002v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Mauricio Rocha Dimitrov ·
Mar 6, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Overall, the manuscript is well written and sufficient background information is provided to support questions addressed by this work. However, few changes and corrections throughout the text should be made to improve readability. Authors should provide accession numbers for the sequencing raw data.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Research questions addressed are relevant and clearly defined. The methodology described cannot be completely reproduced by another investigator, therefore, it needs to be expended (see general comments). Bioinformatics and statistical analyses seem to be correctly conducted, however, I do have some concerns regarding the methods and approaches used (see general comments).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The manuscript shows that an exposure, via ingestion of contaminated food, to a sub-lethal dose of an organophosphate pesticide causes significant shifts on the gut microbiota of the japanese quail. Authors discuss and speculate about the potential impacts that such shifts might have on the health of birds. However, there was no treatment to assess recovery after exposure, which could have indicated to which extent the exposure poses a treat to the health of these birds. Furthermore, there is no discussion about the role of the microbial groups that are changing in the GIT. I am not, by any means, an expert in gut microbiota, but a shift in taxonomic groups not necessarily means a shift in function. Perhaps, the author could try to fill this gap by analysing their 16S rRNA data with PICRUST.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_3
Introduction L64-73: what are the concentrations that are representative of exposure levels on the filed (environmental relevant concentrations)? L77: Are birds exposed to pesticides only by food ingestion? L88: "...most of the studies characterising the GIT microbiota" of avian species "have been carried out" in chicken models. (suggestion) L103: define low, taking into account environmental relevant concentrations. Material and Methods L115: ad libitum, rather than ab libitum??? L121-L125: what was the age of the birds at the beginning of the experiment? Definitely more than 4 weeks. What is the life span of these birds? In the introduction authors mention that GIT microbiota play an important role in the development and maturation of the immune systems. Is this relevant for these birds? L126-130: Authors used a model to estimate pesticide residue of avian food sources, however, nothing is mentioned to indicate that the concentration of pesticide used to estimate the residue is the concentration normally applied of the field. L149-150: Conditions used for PCR relations are not indicated. L157: what were the non bacterial OTUs, archaea? L162: what was the reason for choosing the NCBI Microbial database for taxonomy assignment? It seems to me that authors could have chosen a more appropriate database like SILVA. L164: Provide accession numbers. L170: is 9999 times correct? Or it was used 999 times? L166-178: No singletons and doubletons were discarded. This might have a significant effect on the analyses performed, especially because authors performed all the analyses on OTU level. L178: I was not able to access the webpage provided as source of the calypso software. Results The results section is rather descriptive and many of the results indicating shifts on the GIT microbiota are presented on genus or species level. I would be very careful to base my results on such lower levels. It is well know that OTU clustering algorithms are far from perfect and also that erros introduced during the preparation and sequencing of the samples might have an impact on the diverse and taxa observed. Moreover, some of the results presented show changes on taxa that are present in a very small relative abundance. Would the discard of singletons and doubletons change the observed results? The substitution of the word proportional by relative might improve readability (example L227, 233, 237, etc.). There are sentences that should be rephrased, since they are too long and difficult to understand. Check L271-275 as an example. Discussion L355-357: Include examples of effects of organophosphate insecticides in bacteria in other environments. Are the same phyla affected? L372-374: Do bacteria need to be able to degrade the insecticide to have an advantage? L373: should be bacteria, rather than bacterium. L386: bacteria, rather than bacterium (check text throughly). L438: include references. L438-440: What could be an explanation for the increase of Firmicutes in the faeces material, while in the other origins this phylum decreases significantly. L446-447: sentence seems to be incomplete. Also doesn't this sentence contradict the sentence on L438-440? Discussion L451-453: suggestion: A single sub-lethal exposure to an organophosphate insecticide, at concentrations similar to levels likely to be ingested following insecticide spraying in an orchard, caused significant changes in avian gut microbiota within 24 hours. L453: The size of this change, it reads/sounds strange. L457-461: Check comment on L372-374. I dont believe that all bacteria that responded positively to the exposure did so because they are able to degrade the insecticide. Moreover, reduction of bacterial groups could have happened not only by susceptibility to the insecticide. An indirect effect does not mean susceptibility to the insecticide. L462: which questions? Cite this review as
Rocha Dimitrov M ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "A low dose of an organophosphate insecticide causes dysbiosis and sex-dependent responses in the intestinal microbiota of the Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2002v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_4
Richard Ducatelle ·
Mar 10, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_4
Feed formula as well as feed ingredients may have an enormous impact on intestinal microbiota composition. The ingredients used to formulate the feeds as well as the percentages included should be reported. On line 117, the impression is given as if no premix of vitamins and minerals was used, but only sodium, copper, calcium and selenium was added.
Experimental design
label_ed_4
There are several flaws in the exeperimental set up. On line 113, it appears as if birds were housed 4 per cage. With 20 birds, that means 5 cages, thus not evenly distributed over the 2 treatments. It is also unclear whether the males and females were housed separately. It is well established that cage effects on microbiota composition can be very important. It is unclear why fecal samples were used. Moreover, it is well known that birds produce two types of droppings, cecal droppings and colonic droppings. the former are much more sticky and thus can be distinguished from the latter. It is unclear which type of droppings were used here. Moreover, it is inclear how long after defecation the feces were collected. this may have considerable influence on the microbial composition.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_4
the data may be biased by cage effects, distribution of the sexes over the cages, the limited numbers of animals (2 groups of 5 for each sex). In the discussion the authors (mis)use literature data. for instance; when refering to the paper of Li et al., 2016) they use the Blautia argument, but they dismiss that Li et al. also found an increase of Desulfovibrio associated with improved FCR, which is in conflict with their findings and with their reference to Shin et al (2015). Moreover, the paper of Shin et al. relates to mammals, not birds. another example: there are just as many studies showing that Lactobacillus probiotics have no beneficial effect. there are studies showing that Akkermansia is enriched in studies showing beneficial effects of prebiotics.
Comments for the author
Ideally, the analyses of microbiota should have been done on the same animals before and after treatment. there are conflicting reports whether faeces are representative or not for intestinal microbiota. Cite this review as
Ducatelle R ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "A low dose of an organophosphate insecticide causes dysbiosis and sex-dependent responses in the intestinal microbiota of the Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2002v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 21, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
