Review History for Cloning and expression analysis of cinnamoyl-CoA reductase (CCR) genes in sorghum [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Cloning and expression analysis of cinnamoyl-CoA reductase (CCR) genes in sorghum To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 9th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 8th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on March 31st, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on April 5th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 13th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Sheila McCormick
·
Apr 13, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your paper is now accepted.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 5, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Sheila McCormick
·
Apr 4, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
In the summary you state "The gene copy number of SbCCR1 was significantly higher than those of SbCCR2-1 and SbCCR2-2 in the tested tissues, especially in stem" - must be incorrect - the gene copy number does not vary in different tissues, expression levels does. You have it correctly stated on p. 11, lines 10-11. Please use the same phrasing in the summary.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 31, 2016
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Sheila McCormick
·
Feb 8, 2016
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I think you should address point #1 (under Validity of the findings) of reviewer 1, i.e. re qPCR. If you can make some attempt to address points 2 and 4 of reviewer 1, that would be good - but if not, please explain why not in your cover letter, and temper your conclusions - i.e. expression analyses are just that, you cannot infer function. You should address all the other comments of both reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 25, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article reports on the characterization of three CCRs cloned from Sorghum. The authors analyze gene expression patterns of these CCRs in different tissues and during biotic and abiotic stresses. They describe the phylogenetic relationships of the Sorghum CCRs and explore subcellular localization. 1/ Unfortunately, the authors omit citing some relevant literature. Especially when discussing the protein sequence and domain conservation of the Sorghum CCRs, the authors should relate to the findings of Pan et al. (2014), which go into the details of structure-function relationships in CCRs. Also, it was found that CCRs can also contribute to the production of phenylpropene volatile organic compounds (Muhlemann et al., (2014)), not just to lignin formation. 2/ While the text is written clearly, there are a few places where the English could be improved. For example, line 47: “walls of secondary thickened cells” probably should read as “secondary cell walls”. 3/ Line 188 and other places in the text: The authors did not perform a spatio-temporal analysis, only a spatial analysis (different tissues were analyzed). The text should be changed accordingly. 4/ In the discussion, the authors often use the term “real CCR gene”. All CCR genes are real. I suggest that the authors use a more appropriate and scientific term for the group of CCR genes they consider “real”.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1/ The research question(s) and relevance of the project are not clearly stated in the introduction. Why is it important to characterize CCRs in sorghum? What is the knowledge gap that the authors wanted to fill? Characterizing an already well-characterized gene function in another species (Sorghum in this case) is merely an incremental gain of knowledge. 2/ What is the reasoning behind the drought and aphid-stress experiments? Is Sorghum particularly prone to these stresses. If not, why did the authors focus on these two stresses only? 3/ It is difficult to understand the methods section on the induction of biotic stresses with aphids. This section could be improved. Also, did the authors make sure that the aphids migrated from the aphid-infected leaves to the seedlings?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
1/ I would like to see absolute levels of expression for the qPCR results section. It is possible that one of the CCRs is expressed at much higher levels than the others and thus presumably is the one CCR that contributes the most to formation of monolignols in the given tissue/stress. 2/ Line 77: “To understand the functions of the three CCR genes, expressions…”. Since expression analysis only provides a hint at possible functions, I would have liked to see Sorghum transgenic lines with downregulated CCRs. These transgenic lines would provide a better understanding of CCR function than only expression analysis. Sorghum can be readily transformed by particle bombardment (see e.g. Liu and Godwin, (2012)). 3/ Did the authors make sure that the aphids migrated from the aphid-infected leaves to the seedlings? 4/ CCRs act on multiple hydroxycinnamoyl-CoA esters. I would have liked seeing the substrate specificities and kinetic parameters of the three CCRs, as this could answer whether the different CCRs differentially direct the fluxes to the different monolignols.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Cloning and expression analysis of cinnamoyl-CoA reductase (CCR) genes in sorghum (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2005v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jaime Barros-Rios ·
Feb 5, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Line 59. Please introduce a new Figure 1 with the lignin biosynthetic pathway, highlighting the position of the CCR genes.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Methods are well described and according to the standards in the field.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Captions in Figures 5 and 6 must indicate the statistical test used for means comparison.
Comments for the author
Line 145-146. The similarity between SbCCR2-1 and SbCCR2-2 was higher (?%) than that between SbCCR1 and SbCCR2-1 (?%) and that between SbCCR1 and SbCCR2-2 (?%). Fig.2 must highlight in some way the sorgum CCRs and the different CCR1 sub-clades (monocot/dicot). Fig. 6 and corresponding text (at least in line 215) must indicate the common and scientific name of the pest species used in the study. Cite this review as
Barros-Rios J ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Cloning and expression analysis of cinnamoyl-CoA reductase (CCR) genes in sorghum (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2005v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 9, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
