Review History for A cross-sectional questionnaire study of the rules governing pupils’ carriage of inhalers for asthma treatment in secondary schools in North East England [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A cross-sectional questionnaire study of the rules governing pupils’ carriage of inhalers for asthma treatment in secondary schools in North East England To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 2nd, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 8th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on April 4th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 13th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Roy Harrison
·
Apr 13, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the comprehensive response to the reviewers. The manuscript is now accepted.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 4, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Roy Harrison
·
Mar 8, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please carry out minor modifications as suggested by the reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Generally meets Peer J policies but there are some unreferenced statements, some clumsy grammar, some text in the wrong section, further clarification in parts, and more justification required for some of the conclusions
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Acceptable
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Mostly valid but some further clarification required on some aspects of interpretation.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Have tracked some comments and suggestions in attached copy of manuscript Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "A cross-sectional questionnaire study of the rules governing pupils’ carriage of inhalers for asthma treatment in secondary schools in North East England (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2006v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 26, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The interest of the article would seem to be school administrators, school nurses, head teachers and teachers; it is of limited interest outside the North East of England as an example of what other people might do to audit their current practice. In this limited sense the novelty is fair – but maybe the significance of this is limited by the poor generalisability of the results. The study is very simple and (mostly) clear. It would have been useful to have more information on which schools had and had not answered the questions and seen a table against the characteristics of the schools. Responses certainly seem to have been very variable by district. It would also be useful to know what the characteristics of the schools were according to whether they were compliant and noncompliant to current policies. It would be useful background information to know who in the school had completed the questionnaires (head teacher, administrator, school nurse). Finally (I couldn’t find the questionnaire) I was not clear whether the questionnaire specifically asked solely about policy in relation to students that were 16 years old and above. If not, and if the schools have a wider age range the answer to the question whether “students have to have parental permission to carry an inhaler” could be answered correctly by the same school either as “Yes (if they are under 16)” or “No, (if they are over sixteen they do not require parental approval).” Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "A cross-sectional questionnaire study of the rules governing pupils’ carriage of inhalers for asthma treatment in secondary schools in North East England (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2006v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 2, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
