Review History for The influence of scopolamine on motor control and attentional processes [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The influence of scopolamine on motor control and attentional processes To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 22nd, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 10th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on April 7th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on April 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 13th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Christiane Thiel
·
Apr 13, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All comments were adressed.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Christiane Thiel
·
Apr 8, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I see the effort to show that there are no session effects, however this cannot be calculated from the present data. First it is invalid to do a Person correlation using the test session variable which is data on the nominal scale. Second, session is always confounded by drug. So either the authors have to test a couple of new subjects without drug twice or state this as well as the lack of a placebo control as a limitation. With respect to scopolamine binding you only mention the brain stem and cerebellum, I think cortical and subcortical receptors should at least be acknowledged.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 7, 2016
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Christiane Thiel
·
Mar 10, 2016
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Since we were only able to find one reviewer, I reviewed the manuscript myself based on my own expertise. Like the other reviewer, I think that the paper is well written and is the first study to address the effects of a low dose of scopolamine on motor control and attention. I see however a major drawback in the design that was not placebo controlled and the low number of subjects. Hence, the conclusion that a low dose of scopolamine has no effect on attentional processes cannot be made from the data. First, since there was no placebo control the effects of scopolamine were tested in a before-after approach. The absence of effects on RT of scopolamine may be due to an interaction of practice which would decrease RT and an increase in RT by scopolamine. Second, most tasks administering scopolamine subcutaneously used a 60 min wait period prior to testing since maximal effects on alertness and attention or other central measures occur between 1-2 hrs post injection (e.g. Ebert et al. Clin Pharmacol. 1998). The 30 min interval may have been too short to observe effects on RTs. Third, the effects on attention may be smaller in size than effects on posture, hence 7 subjects may be just to low to detect a significant change. Hence, these confounds need to be addressed in any revised version. The effects on balance are also highly relevant to older individuals taking scopolamine, this should be discussed. l.74 there are more scopolamine binding sites in the central nervous system. l.81 in my opinion, the effect on cognitive processes is due to the effect of scopolamine on the projection from the basal forebrain to the cortex, rather than vestibular processes being located in parieto-temporal regions. For reporting ANOIVA results F values and degrees of freedom should be consistently reported. Which test do the stars on figures 2 and 3 reflect. Where these post hoc t-test?
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 29, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a well-written paper about the effects of scopolamine on attention and motor control. There is good justification for doing the study and a relevant literature review is presented to contextualize the paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methods are clear and appear to be replicable by another investigator. The cognitive and motor tasks as well as the medication administration are clearly described.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The statistics are appropriate given the study design. The conclusions are appropriate given the results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a well-written paper that makes an interesting contribution to the effects of scopolamine on cognitive and motor functioning. As the authors note it is the first study of scopolamine effects on motor control and this is an important finding. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The influence of scopolamine on motor control and attentional processes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2008v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 22, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
