Review History for Coral reproduction in Western Australia [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Coral reproduction in Western Australia To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 26th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 18th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on April 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 13th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
James Reimer
·
Apr 13, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have answered the reviewers' comments well, and this new version is ready to be published. I have noticed a few small things that need to be edited here and there, please ensure these are done at the proof stage or earlier if possible. 1. In Table 1, ensure region names are NOT in italics to distinguish from generic names. 2. Check spelling of "Damiper". 3. Check capitalization is consistent with "reefs", e.g. "Pilbara reefs" or "Pilbara Reefs". 4. Replace "some examples include (...." with "(e.g. LIST)".
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Reimer
·
Mar 18, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have now received comments from two expert reviewers. Both reviewers were generally very positive about your submission, and only have quite minor suggestions and corrections. Having evaluated your manuscript myself, I agree with their comments, and hence, my decision is 'minor revision'. I look forward to receiving a revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 10, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This paper is clear and fairly well written. It summarizes the pertinent literature on coral reproduction in Western Australia and includes the "gray literature", making this information available to a wider audience. Because this is a review, the manuscript is fairly long. The figures are clear and relevant to the content. Two relatively minor points: The authors repeatedly use specie for a single species and in line 856, coral is spelled as coal.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The research here addresses a huge issue in conservation biology - how do we adequately assess reproduction in terms of environmental mitigation. This is an extremely important topic that has been alluded to in previous work, but this paper outlines a process to capture the essential elements critical for understanding impacts of human projects on coral reproduction. The paper also addresses significant aspects of reproduction that need to be considered in all studies of coral reproduction, whether for purely scientific study or for management. The authors have developed, and demonstrate how to apply, a method to quantify periods of time that are significant in terms of the contribution of major community members to reproductive output, and also highlight the concerns for "rare" species.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
An extensive data set for reproductive parameters for Western Australian species has been collated and used for the development of a prototype model that environmental managers could apply to assess impacts on coral community reproduction. This model clearly could be applied in other regions of the coral world.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Coral reproduction in Western Australia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2010v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 18, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper titled as “Coral reproduction in Western Australia” is a good review of coral spawning information in a large region of Western Australia, from tropical to subtropical reefs. Such information was collected from a large amount of papers including confidential reports to industry and government, and was well organized in figures and tables. I believe that this review makes easy to understand the regional characteristics of coral reproduction, and recommend that this paper is worth publishing in Peer J, except that some references are required for several sentences. Please see below for minor revisions. L173-175: Is this information supported by any references? L690: mangers to managers L886-889: Do you have some data supported this information? Authors need to clarify a reference or data. L913-915: Need references. L970-971: Need references. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Coral reproduction in Western Australia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2010v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 26, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
