Review History for Microsatellite loci discovery from next-generation sequencing data and loci characterization in the epizoic barnacle Chelonibia testudinaria (Linnaeus, 1758) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Microsatellite loci discovery from next-generation sequencing data and loci characterization in the epizoic barnacle Chelonibia testudinaria (Linnaeus, 1758) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 9th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 11th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on April 14th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 18th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Pei-Yuan Qian
·
Apr 18, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am happy with the revised ms and pleased to inform you that your ms has been accepted for publication in PeerJ. Thank you for submitting your ms to this journal. Regards.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 14, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Pei-Yuan Qian
·
Apr 11, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address the issues raised by the reviewers and provide me with your response in point-to-point format when you submit your revised version.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 5, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript describes the development and characterization of microsatellite markers for the epizoic barnacle Chelonibia testudinaria using shot-gun sequencing. Overall I found the paper to be well written and appropriate length (rather concise) given the nature of the subject (essentially a primer note). Presentation of the new primers and results of the initial population genetic work are largely sound, but I have some questions about details of the methods and results, which will need to be addressed before the MS can be accepted.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
A couple of methods-related issues. 1) What software was used to map reads to Balanoides genome? What mis-match or identity cut-offs (or other input options) were used? 2) Were the usats that you chose to optimize perfect repeats or not? How were the 48 chosen? e.g. by motif or randomly?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Results: I would like to see motif data (sequence and if compound, how many of each repeat motif) for each marker presented in a main text table or at least a supplementary table. It would just be another column in table 1 or added to the 'kmer' column. Figure 1 needs more information I think. First, what is the Y-axis? I assume counts, but should be explicit in the figure. Note that one of the Y-axes has a decimal point - the others do not. Also, you should state in the figure that these data are from the Atlantic population. And that raises the question, why plot the Atlantic data and not the Indo-pacific data? Or why not plot them together? You state that none of the loci had significant HWE deviations in the Indo-Pacific (line 154-155), but I see at least 2 loci that look to be significant in table 2 (Ctest31 and Ctest36) based on HWE P-Values of “0”. What are the digits on “0”? Is it so low that it is effectively zero, or is it a very small fraction close to zero? If it is VERY small, perhaps you should present as “<0.0001” – the “0” is hard to interpret especially since all other P values have decimal points. Also, I see at least one case of significant heterozygote excess (Atlantic – Ctest7 ). This could be mentioned in results as currently only homozygote excess is described. I am confused by Line 155 “richness was significantly lower than in the Atlantic individuals”. Allelic richness (AR) appears to be much HIGHER in the indo pacific (AR range ~ 3-22 in indo vs 1.8-6.88 Atlantic; Tables 2 and 3). Is this just a typo or am I missing something? You state that it is “significantly” higher …. Was this tested statistically? Discussion: Perhaps some discussion of the differences in diversity between the Atlantic and Indo-pacific populations would be good as diversity (allelic richness) appear to be very different. A sentence here could be useful. Given that usats were developed in the Atlantic lineage, you might expect a higher frequency of null alleles and thus reduced observed heterozygosity in the indo-pacific population, but we do not. Differences in diversity thus appear to be real, atleast for the sample sizes used. Finally, there is little discussion about development of microsatellite markers using “next-gen” approaches in other barnacles, however there is at least one other paper with similar analyses and products (Plough and Marko 2014, Characterization of Microsatellite Loci and Repeat Density in the Gooseneck Barnacle, Pollicipes elegans, Using Next Generation Sequencing, J. Hered. 105). Perhaps there is no reason to refer to this paper in a comparative manner, but in the intro or discussion, some mention could be made as it uses similar techniques and presents similar results/analyses.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Microsatellite loci discovery from next-generation sequencing data and loci characterization in the epizoic barnacle Chelonibia testudinaria (Linnaeus, 1758) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2019v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 7, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript is well written. The background is appropriate and relevant literature is properly referenced.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The epizoic barnacle Chelonibia testunaria is a non-model species that possess an unusual sexual system: androdiecy. Few genomic resources exist for this species, hence this study fill in this gap by providing 11 microsatellite loci that should prove useful for population genetic studies. The descriptive study has been well conducted and I have no major issue with it.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The sequencing and in silico analyses have been well conducted. Only 12 loci amplified and scored successfully out of 48, which is typical in this kind of study. Some loci showed homozygote excess in the Atlantic but not in the Pacific population. These microsatellite loci should prove useful in future studies.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This ms by Ewers-Saucedo et al. describes the discovery of thousands of microsatellite loci from illumina sequencing in the barnacle, Chelonibia testudinaria. Of these thousands loci, 11 were characterized and appear useful for population genetic studies. This approach is widely used and has proven successful for microsatellite discovery in a variety of species. As there is a paucity of genomic resources for this non-model species, this information will be useful for researchers wanting to assess the impact of this unusual sexual system. I have a few comments for the authors: L 133. Best not to comment on haploid genome size from sequencing data as it could be misleading. L 153 Please provide number of individuals out of 23 that amplified successfully Should we really expect HWE in epizoic animals ? I find it a bit strange that null alleles were present in the Altantic individuals but not in the Pacific ones. Any ideas ? Figure 1. i don't understand why the number of alleles don't correspond to table 2. For example, table 2 reports 18 alleles in Ctest7 but only 4 are reported on the graph. Table 1. Please provide the repeat motifs for these microsatellite loci. Were the allele sizes consistent with what was expected from the repeat number i.e. for tetranucleotides, did the alleles jump every 4 bp ? Table 2. Did the authors use the bonferroni corrections to account for the 11 loci. Did the authors test linkage disequilibrium among loci ? L213 collèction should read collection Hedgecock, and Jarne and Lagoda references. No parenthese should appear in the year of publication Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Microsatellite loci discovery from next-generation sequencing data and loci characterization in the epizoic barnacle Chelonibia testudinaria (Linnaeus, 1758) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2019v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 9, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
