Review History for Genome-scale investigation of phenotypically distinct but nearly clonal Trichoderma strains [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Genome-scale investigation of phenotypically distinct but nearly clonal Trichoderma strains To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 9th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 1st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on April 15th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 19th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Irene Newton
·
Apr 19, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All reviewer comments were adequately addressed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 15, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Irene Newton
·
Apr 1, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Although all reviewers appreciated the study and found the findings interesting, two suggested revisions that should be made to the text and writing (minor revisions).
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 21, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is easy to follow and written in professional English language. The introduction is well referenced with relevant citations, however, I think that Braithwaite et al. (2016) appearing as "forthcoming" is not an acceptable reference, at least the in press stage should be accessible, otherwise the format „Braithwaite M et al., unpublished” should be used in the text. Furthermore, accessibility via full text links should be provided for references citing the thesis works of Dodd-Wilson SL, Kay SJ, Lange C, McLean K 1996 and McLean K 2001. FigS4: should be „data represent” (plural) I missed conventional legends in the case of the supplementary figures.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The manuscript reports original primary research within the scope of the journal. The research questions are well defined, the experimental design and the applied microbiological, biochemical, genome-scale, bioinformatical and statistical tools are appropriate. The authors performed a remarkable amount of work at a high technical standard. The methods are described with sufficient detail and information to repeat the experiments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Genomic sequence data are made available in the NCBI sequence read archive database.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript of Lange et al. reports the morphological, biochemical and genome-scale comparison of two nearly clonal strains of Trichoderma cf. atroviride. The authors describe the clearly different phenotypic characteristics and antagonistic behaviour of the two strains which they try to relate to differences at the genomic level. Remarkably, the full genome comparison of the two strains revealed only 2 SNPs within coding regions of genes, with only one of them being non-synonymous, which made the explanation of the phenotypical differences between the two strains with genetic background difficult, but enabled the development of a strain-specific monitoring tool for the biocontrol strain LU132. The results represent an interesting contribution to both fungal comparative genomics and biocontrol research. Question: In section 175-182 the authors report about the identification of 659 putative SNPs, and finally state that two SNPs, both transition polymorphisms could be confirmed. Does it mean that all other putative SNPs were false positives? Were there any polymorphisms between the two strains in non-coding genomic regions? If yes, could this provide an explanation for the different phenotypic characters? Minor comments: 71: SCAR is not a specific „region” but a strategy, see e.g. Naeimi et al: Strain-specific SCAR markers for the detection of Trichoderma harzianum AS12-2, a biological control agent against Rhizoctonia solani, the causal agent of rice sheath blight. ACTA BIOLOGICA HUNGARICA 62: 73-84. (2011) 79: „more than 200 species” would be better 89, 92: „hypercellulolytic” would be more appropriate instead of „cellulase producing”, biocontrol strains may also produce cellulases, even if in smalller quantities Figure 2: the greek letter should be used for alpha instead of „a” in the name of alpha-D-glucose 276 – Table 2: it is not defined, what the data in the table are. Are they radial growth rates in mm/day? 168 and 501: link is not working (03.21.2016) 356: should be „Seidl, Druzhinina & Kubicek (2006)” 487: should be „Bochner, Gadzinski & Panomitros 2001” as in line 484 492: should be „Friedl, Kubicek and Druzhinina 2008” a sin line 141 514: should be „BLAST analysis” 539: should be „Seidl, Druzhinina & Kubicek 2006” as in line 154 555: should be „from Holyoake et al. (2008)” 620: should be „Mukherjee M” instead of „Mala M” 623: journal name is abbreviated here but not elsewhere – follow the required format of the journal 647: „GR S, editor” ? 665, 710, 761, 763: missing dot and/or space at the end of title 679, 744 and 809: „FEMS”, „FEBS” and „SGM” should be in all caps 758, 759: „Microbiology”, „Journal of Biological Chemistry” with capital initial 803-804: do not capitalize title initials References: doi numbers are indicated for certain references but not for others – follow the required format of the journal 810-811: the bibliographic data are missing from reference Shoukouhi P, and Bissett J. 2009 Tables S1, S3 and S5: data should be given with decimal points, not commas Table S7: data are missing for primers C, D and SNP1-F Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Genome-scale investigation of phenotypically distinct but nearly clonal Trichoderma strains (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2023v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 25, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
p. 10, starting with line 183, describes de novo assembly of the reads that did not map to the reference T. atroviride genome, but there is no mention of regions of the reference of the genome that had no coverage. These are not necessarily included in the assembly of the unmapped reads. Was there any effort to test whether regions lacking coverage are indeed missing from the LU132 and/or LU140 genomes (by individual PCR reactions for example)? It seems this might have identified addtional differences. Probably I am missing something, if so please clarify in the text.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The conclusions are well-supported by the data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The key point of this paper is that two very similar strains of Trichoderma atroviride are very different in their biocontrol ability. This provided the opportunity to use genome sequencing to identify the genetic basis for the different phenotypes of the two strains. The difference that was identified accounted, in part (but not completely) for the phenotypic difference. An additional outcome was the development of the SNPs as markers for identification of the LU132 strain in the field, with immediate practical application. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Genome-scale investigation of phenotypically distinct but nearly clonal Trichoderma strains (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2023v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
M Belén Rubio ·
Mar 31, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
I believe that this manuscript is appropriated for publication in PeerJ. It is well written and edited, recent and relevant bibliography has been used and figures and tables are clear.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The objective of this manuscript is clear and original. Methods have been described with datail. I think it's a very complete job with many well-designed experiments and it can contribute to a better understanding of Trichoderma at a molecular level.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Results are robust and interesting, although they could be summarized. Discussion is good, remarkable conclusions and identified speculations can be drawn.
Cite this review as
Rubio MB ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "Genome-scale investigation of phenotypically distinct but nearly clonal Trichoderma strains (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2023v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 9, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
