Review History for An enigmatic aquatic snake from the Cenomanian of Northern South America [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History An enigmatic aquatic snake from the Cenomanian of Northern South America To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 27th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 24th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on April 19th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 19th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Hans-Dieter Sues
·
Apr 19, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for carefully addressing the reviewers' and academic editor's comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 19, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Hans-Dieter Sues
·
Feb 24, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both reviewers have comments (and both have supplied annotated PDFs), which must be addressed carefully. The new taxon requires a proper diagnosis that really should highlight the autapomorphic features of the new taxon. The manuscript was poorly written, and the AE has edited the manuscript (see my appended PDF). Please make sure that Dr. Neenan (a native English speaker) reviews the final version of the text.
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Alexandra Houssaye ·
Feb 11, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Dear Editor, This manuscript describes a new fossil snake from the Cenomanian of South America. Snake material from this period is rare and of extreme importance to better understand snake origin. This paper is thus very important for the scientific community. The paper is well written and clear. I have made various comments throughout the manuscript with suggestions as I think that the description could be clearer and, especially, more detailed and more "justified". Notably various hypotheses that are written as "solid conclusions" whereas there is no real arguments. Also, the use of microtomography is not justified anywhere and we can wonder why it was done; however, additional data could be available thanks to the scan data and are not added in the manuscript. If possible, that would be great to add them. (see comments in the MS) These modifications will probably be easy to do for the authors. That is why I consider this review as minor/moderate. If my suggestions are unclear, I remain at the disposal of the authors. Best regards, Alexandra Houssaye
Experimental design
label_ed_1
See comment about microtomography above
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See comment above about "justification"
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Houssaye A ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "An enigmatic aquatic snake from the Cenomanian of Northern South America (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2027v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Michael Caldwell ·
Feb 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is well written in terms of English usage, though there are a few minor editorial comments made on the manuscript. Relevant literature is cited, but it is somewhat superficial in terms of the connections made between the new material and the existing data and hypotheses as cited. For example, the authors discuss "prescolecophidian snakes" and consider their new taxon to be one of these. However, I have no idea what a prescolecophidian snake is, can find no definition of this obvious grade of snake, and need to see that term defined in their text, or better yet, abandoned. In any current snake phylogeny, scolecophidians are nesting, right or wrong, between pachyophiids and Najash, Dinilysia, etc. The vertebrae of the new taxon are more like pachyophiids, and not at all like Najash or the madtsoiids. This needs to made clear in the text as a vague reference to "prescolecophidian" is not sufficient nor informative. Figures are relevant and informative, though a line drawing of an isolated vertebra would not hurt. The submission is a coherent body of work.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research as described is original and has a clearly defined research question - i.e., new snake fossil and anatomy helps answer the question as to what kind of snake and how this new taxon relates to current understanding of snake evolution. Methodology is appropriately outlined and described. I see no breach of ethics.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data is good, though the conclusions are not as exploratory as I would like them to be - see above criticism regarding "prescolecophidian"
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
see above. The manuscript is acceptable but needs minor revisions. I am expecting editorial corrections, a more robust discussion of phylogeny, not this weak assignment to "prescolecophidian", and some redefining of the use of the term pachyostosis and is regionalization to the neural arch, but not the centrum. Otherwise, I recommend acceptance with minor revisions. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Caldwell M ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "An enigmatic aquatic snake from the Cenomanian of Northern South America (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2027v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 27, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
