Review History for Living to the range limit: consumer isotopic variation increases with environmental stress [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Living to the range limit: consumer isotopic variation increases with environmental stress To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 12th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 11th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on April 14th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 22nd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
James Reimer
·
Apr 22, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript is revised well, and is now acceptable for publication. Please note that I have added two small corrections to the paper; please see the attachment and edit in the proofs or an earlier stage (if possible).
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 14, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Reimer
·
Apr 11, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have heard back now from two reviewers. Both were generally positive about your manuscript, and both offered constructive and helpful comments. As well, reviewer 1 has asked for some more information and clarification. These reviewers' comments will help you improve your manuscript, but I do not foresee major changes in it; therefore, my decision is 'minor revision'.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 30, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Review of Reddin et al. This manuscript investigates the change of diets of Echinolittorinids along the tidal levels from high, mid to low shores, using a stable isotope approach. The samplings of the food sources, snails and analysis of the data is up to standard. The MS can be accepted for publication after revisions. There are some basic assumption and biology of the species needed to be clarified in details in the introduction and methods: 1)How is the foraging range of the snails in high, mid and low shores. Mobile gastropods can have great distance moved and can forage among tidal levels. The author should state evidence that the Echonilittorind snails they studied does not have had among tidal level movements. 2)In the high shore, the author also sampled snails from rock pools. Rock pool water interface is a relatively benign environment (See WILLIAMS, G.A. & MORRITT, D. 1995. Habitat partitioning and thermal tolerance in a tropical limpet, Cellana grata on a tropical rocky shores. Marine Ecology Progress Series 124: 89-103). This should represent a separate group rather than grouped in the high shore for analysis? 3)Any seasonal variation in the algal diversity and biofilm diversity on the shores. In Hong Kong, grazers are exposed to different sources in algae in summer and winter, which can greatly influence the stable isotope value of the grazers. 4)The author say their study species is a generalist but selective grazer. What does it mean, does it mean it has feeding preference on certain types of algae? This need elborations. 5)What is the species in the macroalgae samples for food source analysis? Any examination of the species in the biofilm samples?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Good. comments are in the basic reporting.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Important.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In the basic reporting. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Living to the range limit: consumer isotopic variation increases with environmental stress (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2034v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 11, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript is very well written and clear. I see no major flaws in the study. The authors should be aware that Harrod et al. may soon publish some work refuting the hypothesis that isotopic and trophic niche size are proportional... this work was recently presented at a Stable Isotope Ecology Conference... however, these data are not yet published. Some minor comments: I feel that “credible interval” is more widely used than “credibility interval” when referencing Bayesian statistics. Odd character —— long dashes in lines 209 and 210. The authors should explain the mechanism for reduced % C and % N to indicate poor physiological condition. Since these two factors co-varied, it seems that the C/N ratio is constant and therefore not a very informative measure of variance in body composition. Indeed, this is discussed in the Discussion section but the C:N ratios are not reported or shown in a figure. I suggest making figure 4 a 3 panel figure with C/N as well. Line 286 has an unrecognized character where a delta symbol should be. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Living to the range limit: consumer isotopic variation increases with environmental stress (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2034v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 12, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
