Review History for Similarities between decapod and insect neuropeptidomes [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Similarities between decapod and insect neuropeptidomes To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 20th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 9th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on April 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 26th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ana Pavasovic
·
Apr 26, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the reviewers comments systematically and in great detail. I believe that this manuscript will provide a very meaningful contribution to our understanding of the crustacean biology.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ana Pavasovic
·
Apr 9, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Overall, this manuscript has the potential to make a meaningful contribution to the field and I am in agreement with the reviewers that before it can be accepted for publication, the manuscript would benefit from some minor corrections. Please review all of the comments provided by both reviewers and address them accordingly. Note the presence of an annotated document from reviewer 1.
label_author_1
Simon Webster ·
Apr 7, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript is (on the whole) well written, clear and unambiguous. previous literature is well cited and relevant. Figures are fine (quite a lot of them though)- but it does represent a very substantial and coherent piece of work. Raw data are available on public databases.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The study involved in silico data mining. Thus,quality of data was outside the author's control. Experimental design appears fine, but one concern I have is that the data from the Carinus transcriptome came from four biological replicates ( numerous tissues). I'm not sure how transcript abundance between tissues was normalized. Also, with just a few biological replicates, influences such as molt stage might have made a significant impact on tissue specific transcript abundance. having said this, these issues were outside the author's control. maybe a caveat could be inserted?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I've made numerous corrections and comments in the pdf version, which I attach. I hope that the author finds these helpful and informative! Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Webster SG ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Similarities between decapod and insect neuropeptidomes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2043v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Haihui Ye ·
Apr 8, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
At the age of big data, thousands of SRA databases are open access, however, the utilization rate of these data is not enough. Therefore, the re-mining of databases could wake the sleeping data. In this study, author mainly mined neuropeptides from public SRAs in seven decapods and analysed the similarities between decapod and insect neuropeptidomes. This is a meaningful work for bioinformaticians, and somehow could be attractive to the groups of people who are interested in neuropeptides. However, there are some problems should be noticed. 1. In Results, the subheading was named “CCH/MIH” (see line 252), but in Discussion, the subheading was named “CHH and MIH” (see line 501). It will make the readers troubled. If you insist “CCH”, this abbreviation should be explained, otherwise, it will make the other puzzle with “CCHamide”. As I knew, CHH-superfamily can be divided into two subfamilies, type-I and -II according to their structures (reviewed by Webster, 2012). 2. Vitellogenesis-inhibiting hormone (VIH) and gonad-inhibiting hormone (GIH) were named on different occasions, but they are the same hormone in fact. Therefore, “vitellogenesis-inhibiting hormone (VIH) and gonad-inhibiting hormone (GIH)” should be “vitellogenesis-inhibiting hormone (VIH)/gonad-inhibiting hormone (GIH)” (see line 254-255). 3. In insects, ion transport peptide (ITP) belongs to CHH-family peptides. In Figure 1, this feature have been shown, however, the ITP were unmentioned in mainly text. 4. In this study, two Scylla (Scylla paramamosain and Scylla olivacea) were mentioned. But the single word “Scylla” often appears in the main text, figures and tables. This should be specific to species in a situation. On the other hand, the neuropeptidome of Scylla olivacea was entitle “Prediction of Scylla olivacea (Crustacea; Brachyura) peptide hormones using publicly accessible transcriptome shotgun assembly (TSA) sequences” should be noticed. 5. As I knew, HIGSLYRamide and WXXXRamide were identified in decapods. I would to know if these neuropeptides were mined in these seven decapods as well. Minor comments 1. Line 46, “such as e.g.” should be “such as” or “e.g.”. 2. Line 144-146, the brackets are puzzled. 3. Line 262, “the the CHH” should be “the CHH”. 4. Line 360, line 619, legends of Figure 5 and Figure 6, or anywhere else. “paramosain” should be “paramamosain”. 5. Line 393, “PDF” should be “PDH”, or you should explain why described in “PDF”. 6. Line 516, “(Figs. 5)” should be “(Fig. 4)” 7. Except for “Table 4” and “Table 5”, other three “Table” appear to be “Figure” in sense. 8. Legends of Table 4 and Table 5, what’s the meaning of “eggs and eleven tissues or Carcinus maenas.”? I seems didn’t found the explanation of Table 4 and Table 5 in the main text.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No comments Cite this review as
Ye H ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Similarities between decapod and insect neuropeptidomes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2043v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 20, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
