Review History for Evolution of parasitism and mutualism between filamentous phage M13 and Escherichia coli [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evolution of parasitism and mutualism between filamentous phage M13 and Escherichia coli To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 24th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 25th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on April 29th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 1st, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ewa Chrostek
·
May 1, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you very much for the thoughtful revision of your manuscript. Congratulations on the publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 29, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ewa Chrostek
·
Apr 25, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you very much for the re-submission of your manuscript. I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will be accepted for publication as soon as you address the minor concerns raised by the two Reviewers. The new modelling part, which answers the concerns of Reviewer 1 was assessed by Reviewer 2 (a computational evolutionary biologist), who raised no issues, thus I trust the model was constructed properly. I am looking forward to receive the final version of your work.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 14, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
My key issue with the first version of this manuscript was with the death of phage in a high proportion of the predominantly vertical treatment (N). The authors have addressed this issue in the text and with a supporting model. Whilst there arguments in the text are seemingly just, unfortunately, however, I do not have sufficient experience with modelling to appropriately critique the model construction and its validity. Perhaps the other reviewers will be able to address the suitability of the model but if not I would recommend that a mathematical modeler (or someone with expertise in this area) look at this new data to ensure it has been constructed appropriately. If the model construction is sound then I am happy that the authors have addressed my concerns.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Please see comments on model above.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Clarifying the biology and transmission mode of M13 was very useful in the introduction. I would change "speak" to "address" in line 116 of introduction Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evolution of parasitism and mutualism between filamentous phage M13 and Escherichia coli (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2060v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 21, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Basic reporting requirements are met.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The basic experimental design was reasonable but unfortunately generated results that are difficult to interpret.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The most interesting finding to my mind is that phage that had low or intermediate horizontal transmission possibilities were more deleterious than phage that transmitted purely horizontally. This finding is in contrast to typical theory that horizontal transmission should lead to higher virulence than vertical transmission. There are a couple of possible explanations: One, as the authors point out, is that the vertically transmitted phage are more beneficial in the bacteria with which the phage evolved. Another explanation, is that the phage are mutualistic after they reduce to the lower copy number in cells. Still another is that the difference was driven by differences in effective phage population size. It might be useful to mention more of these caveats. It is then further noted that populations of infected bacteria evolved faster growth rates with phage than without phage. It is again challenging to make the direct comparison between treatments as the effect could have been driven by the addition of ancestral bacteria to the phage treatments. Admittedly this should have if anything reduced the amount of adaptation in the phage treatments, but again the caveat should be noted.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
1) It took me a while to figure out why IA results were different in figure 3 and figure 4. I assume this is because in figure 3 the IA were measured after the phage copy number in the cells had gone down but it would be useful to clarify this a bit further. 2) The lack of consistency between reported statistical comparisons is confusing, as is the comparisons that were chosen in each case. Line 379 - I would be interested to know what kind of gene is envisioned Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Evolution of parasitism and mutualism between filamentous phage M13 and Escherichia coli (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2060v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 24, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
