Review History for Developing demographic toxicity data: optimizing effort for predicting population outcomes [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Developing demographic toxicity data: optimizing effort for predicting population outcomes To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 28th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 14th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on April 25th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 2nd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Leon Higley
·
May 2, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for your thorough work addressing the reviewer's comments and responding to these through rebuttal or modification of the manuscript. I think the paper is ready for publication, and accordingly, I am accepting this revision.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 25, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Leon Higley
·
Mar 14, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I think the key issue for your revision is to address the questions on experimental methods and analyses. I thought reviewers one and two had the most important critiques. Unlike reviewer 3, I did not find the research questions to be a particular problem. However, if you can identify places to address the third reviewer's concern, it wouldn't hurt. I'm hopeful that addressing the issues raised by the first two reviewers won't be too time consuming, and I am looking forward to your revision and being able to move ahead with the publication process.
label_author_1
Robert Peterson ·
Feb 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
See annotated pdf of the manuscript for specific comments. Basic Reporting The paper is generally well written, but there a few items the authors should address to improve the presentation of the study. I recommend augmenting the three tables with a figure or two that visually shows some of the results and trends.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Experimental Design and Validity of the Findings Counts of survival and offspring were recorded daily and then categorized weekly for statistical analysis. However, there is no mention of repeated measures. Weren’t the same experimental units (i.e., 25-ml beaker with 10 individuals) measured repeatedly over time? If so, wouldn’t the researchers need to incorporate repeated measures in their statistical analysis? Also, the counts from the experimental units for each week (partial life table data) were compared to the same experimental units for total life cycle (full life table data). What about the lack of independence with this approach? The full life table data are dependent on, and possibly confounded with, the partial life table data (i.e., weekly data). Yet, the one-way ANOVA and SNK analysis doesn’t seem to take this into account. Wouldn’t a more valid experimental design be separate populations for partial life tables and full life tables and then statistically comparing the independent populations? Please explain this more fully in the Statistical Analysis section, possibly after consulting a statistician.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See above.
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Peterson RK ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Developing demographic toxicity data: optimizing effort for predicting population outcomes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2067v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jerome Schleier III ·
Mar 3, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I think the manuscript is well written. It is refreshing to see this study address a key issue, time and money vs. accuracy and scientific robustness.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The Student-Newman-Keuls test is not the appropriate test for this study. The authors should use the Dunnett’s test because you have a control group, the end of the study when the life table is complete, compared to each week (the partial life tables). In addition the Student-Newman-Keuls test does not allow the calculation of confidence intervals which would tell the readers how much error there is in the calculations. Also there are repeated measures in the study that does not seem to be addressed. Since the same population is being studied there will be co-linearity in the measurements. This issue should be addressed in the statistical testing. To strengthen the paper and your argument it might be good to setup the test again and compare the population in this study to a new population and see if you get the same results. This suggestion is optional but the repeated measures need to be addressed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
However the manuscript is incredibly short and very technical with little about what each parameter means in the grand scheme of things. For this article to have a bigger impact it would be nice to have more explanation of what the parameters mean and how they can be used for risk assessment etc. Keep in mind this article will have more impact if experts outside this area, especially ecotoxicologists, can understand and interpret the manuscript. I think this manuscript should add some more about ecotoxicology and the Endangered Species Act in risk assessment of chemicals. I suggest making points about the advantages and disadvantages of each metric used in this study and make recommendations on which may be more appropriate to measure. Cite this review as
Schleier III JJ ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Developing demographic toxicity data: optimizing effort for predicting population outcomes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2067v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Ryan Davis ·
Mar 8, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Their are some minor edits, typos and wordiness. Please see submitted reviewed draft.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research question needs to be more specific. It is unclear whether the researchers are trying to ask: Can partial life tables be prepared for a cost reduction in life table preparation? What is the variability in partial life table prep? Do the demographic indicators in partial life tables vary too much so that a full life table must be developed for a control? Also need some discussion of how the estimated parameters are valuable and reasonable predictors of life table validity. On line 64 it says that the focus is on whether the article can explain the differences in accuracy of population responses based on reduced datasets by comparing proportional differences in life spans of three Daphniid Species.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
On line 64 it says that the focus is on whether the article can explain the differences in accuracy of population responses based on reduced datasets by comparing proportional differences in life spans of three Daphniid Species. This proportional element is not found in the results. The question needs to be rewritten to say essentially, we are comparing partial life tables to full life tables.
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Davis R ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "Developing demographic toxicity data: optimizing effort for predicting population outcomes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2067v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 28, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
