Review History for Characterisation of an atypical manifestation of black band disease on Porites lutea in the Western Indian Ocean [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Characterisation of an atypical manifestation of black band disease on Porites lutea in the Western Indian Ocean To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 28th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 16th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on April 29th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 3rd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
James Reimer
·
May 3, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been revised well, and is now acceptable for publication. Please ensure the following small corrections are performed either at the proof stage or earlier: 1. spelling "coralites" changed to "corallites" on lines 133 and 135. 2. delete comma after "...species)" on line 362. 3. line 491: "forth" to "fourth". 4. line 531: "healthy" not "sealthy". 5. line 755: Is this correct? please check "Note the pointed terminal calls called calyptra (cal)".
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 29, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Reimer
·
Feb 16, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers were generally positive about your manuscript, and had similar comments on some minor revisions. I have looked over their comments, and find them to be constructive in making your manuscript clearer. Therefore, my decision is 'minor revision".
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 12, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article describes coral disease, Black Band Disease (BBD), on Porites corals as PorBBD observed in Reunion Island coral reef, in the Western Indian Ocean. Spatial and seasonal pattern, progression rate, morphological/histological traits, and genetic analysis have been performed. Some results were similar compared to classical/former observations reported, while PorBBD showed different traits especially white front region close to BBD and bacterial composition. Furthermore, such as less content of cyanobacteria, different bacterial communities of PorBBD are of importance. Genetic analysis of bacterial composition and discussion are excellent. This study has important information and will contribute to further study of BBD.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Séré et al. Characterisation of an atypical manifestation of black band disease on Porites lutea in the Western Indian Ocean. Please check the following comments. Figures and Tables - Figure 1 Indicate Reunion Island (Fr.) by an arrow or paint Island black, it is too small to find the Island. - Figure 3 (ht) (dt) should be (Ht)(Dt), respectively. - Figure 4 Add explanation for ‘cy’ and ‘cal’, cyanobacterium and calypta (pointed terminal cells) Scientific names in ‘C’ should be italic. - Figure 6 Positon of Actinobacteria/Bacterioroides is different in A/B, put correct position. Scientific names should be italic. - Table 1 Fill ‘Habitat’ Reef flat or Reef slope. - Table 2 Line 3: ---healthy tissue => control tissue References Some journals are abbreviated other are not. lines 445, 486: Applied Environmental Microbiology => Appl Environ Microbiol 456: Marine Biology should be Mar Biol 569: Siderastrea siderea => Siderastrea siderea 459,541: abbreviate Journal title 571, 577, 602: abbreviate Journal title Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Characterisation of an atypical manifestation of black band disease on Porites lutea in the Western Indian Ocean (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2073v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Adequate descriptions of methods were provided.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1.Line 116: Please clarify how you identified Porites lutea and P. lobata. These species are not distinguishable underwater/in situ; it is necessary to sample skeletal material for examination under the microscope. 2.Line 165: Please describe how you sampled cores from HT, DT and CT. 3.Line 166: Given the high variability in microbial communities between and even within massive Porites surface mucous layers, please justify why you felt that a single core from a single remote control colony was sufficient to provide an adequate description of the microbial community in healthy colonies.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
1.Lines 303-315: As the microbial consortium within a BBD band is photosynthetic, light limitation is known to be a primary cause of depth limitation in BBD infections. While this has been more rigorously tested in the Caribbean forms, the authors are invited to review work by Sato et al. 2009 and Boyett et al. 2007.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I found the paper well-organized and informative. I was not sure that the description warranted the term “atypical Black Band Disease”, but the authors clearly defined how they were interpreting the disease signs. However, the authors may wish to review a paper by Ainsworth et al. (2007) (Cited in Raymundo and Weil 2016); the term “atypical BBD” has already been used to described something slightly different than what this current paper describes. I have seen this disease myself in several places in the Indo-Pacific and, as many of our coral diseases in this region are poorly described, I believe the paper warrants publication. I am including citations for a couple of references the authors may wish to review that may help round out various points in the discussion and introduction. Ainsworth T, Kramarsky-Winter E, Loya Y, et al. 2007. Coral disease diagnostics: What’s between a plague and a band? Appl Env Microb 73:981-992. Raymundo LJ and Weil E. 2016. Chapter 23: Indo-Pacific Colored Band Diseases of Corals. In: CM Woodley, CA Downs, AW Bruckner, JW Porter, SB Galloway (eds). Diseases of Corals. pp. 333-344. Wiley Blackwell. Boyette H, Bourne D, Willis B. 2007. Elevated temperature and light enhance progression and spread of black band disease on staghorn corals of the Great Barrier Reef. Mar Bio 151: 1711-1720 Sato Y, Bourne D, Willis B. 2009. Dynamics of seasonal outbreaks of black band disease in an assemblage of Montipora species at Pelorus Island (Great Barrier Reef, Australia). Proc Royal Soc Biol Sci 276: 2795-2803. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Characterisation of an atypical manifestation of black band disease on Porites lutea in the Western Indian Ocean (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2073v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 28, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
