Review History for Strategies for improved rhamnolipid production by Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA1 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Strategies for improved rhamnolipid production by Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA1 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 20th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 10th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on April 28th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 3rd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vijai Kumar Gupta
·
May 3, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have read your rebuttal and revised ms and believe it is up to the standard of the journal. I recommend the same for publication in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 28, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vijai Kumar Gupta
·
Nov 10, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Authors, You are requested to go through the comments made by the reviewers (in particular those of Reviewer 2) and undertake the possible revisions to your Mss. Looking forward to see your revised Mss. Best regards, Vijai K Gupta
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 3, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The references used in this article are relatively too old.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments<U+3002>
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Comments to the Author Manuscript: Strategies for improved rhamnolipid production by Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA1 In this study, authors investigated three strategies to increase the production of rhamnolipid produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain PA1. This is an interesting report on improvement of rhamnolipid production. Different initial pH leads to different types of rhamnolipids. The reutilization of culture medium containing endogenous homoserine lactones significantly improved the rhamnolipid production. The fed batch strategy also enhanced rhamnolipid production by using conditions of carbon and nitrogen source limitation. As presented, there are some issues with the report. The following are my detailed comments. 1.The references used in this article are relatively too old. Some recent published articles need cite. 2.For the strategy of adding endogenous autoinducers, in this study, 20% of the spent culture medium where P. aeruginosa was grown up to the later stationary phase was added. I wonder that how to eliminate the disturbance of the rhamnolipid product also synthesized in the present culture medium. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Strategies for improved rhamnolipid production by Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA1 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2078v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 10, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript deals with the optimization of rhamnolipids production using glycerol as carbon substrate. Three approaches are presented and productivities compared. At the end of the work, improved results are presented, however the partial conclusions are not integrated in the dessign of the procces production
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Overall the present manuscript lacks of detailed description of the experiments (feed batch) and the interpretation of the results, and part of the information is repeated (pH effect)
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings of the present work lay on the strategy of rhamnolipid production although authors claim they have three stratyegies to increase production yield, they did not applied them into the process, thus the work appears unfinished
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Ref. manuscript 2015:09:6806:0:1:New 20 Oct 2015 Other comments Figures: the legends of the figures should contain enough details of the culture conditions of the assay to easily understand the results presented. Tables: <U+0394> Biomass or <U+0394> Rhamnose, does meant the increase or bacterial growth minus the RL content of the supernatant added? No information is supply in M&M section about the calculation of the rhamnose of the cultures. Figure 4. Clarify the legend, what do you meant with specific rate of rhamnolipid production? As plotted in the graph mg/g.h; is that mg of product per g of cells per hour? Be careful the legend of the y axis says rhamnolipids it is so? Or it should read rhamnose? On the text is is said that the graph permits clearly observe that the production do not depends on biomass. Fig, 5 and Fig. 6: in these figures a discontinuous addition is shown therefore no identical lines should be drawn from the lower point to the highest point. Results and discussion -Information of Figure 1, and Table 1 is similar on my opinion I would delete Fig. 1, Table 1 gives more detailed information. -Authors adjusted the pH of the culture with phosphate buffer and hence a variation of the phosphate content in the culture medium. It is known that production is affected by that nutrient. What is the rational to conclude the production is only affected by the pH? -Lines 159-161, tighgt some of the physic-chemical properties such as cmc or ST varies with the composition but in other cases ex. stability in front salts or emulsifying activity despite the differences in hydrophobicity are similar -Lines 162-168. Regarding to the effect of pH on production, it is said on M&M section that the pH was adjusted by buffer phosphate from pH 6-8. Two questions: in Figure 2 it is shown pH 5.5 (?). It is known that RL production is negatively affected by phosphate concentration. No information about the content of phosphate is mentioned neither the growth of the population, since at pH 5.5 -6 the growth of Pseudomonas might be affected, moreover what is the cellular yield of RL production? -Lines 217-179. It is said that NaNO3 concentration over 0.1% (1 g/L) inhibits the growth of Pseudomonas, I do not agree with this general appreciation, it might depend on the strain; there are numerous examples using higher amount of sodium nitrate and the bacterial growth increases with the nitrate content. -Regarding to the addition of AHL, in the form of supernatant, the authors are right AHL has effect on RhlR production however, I wonder whether authors have considered that in the supernatant contain also rhamnolipids, do rhamnolipids have any effect? -the profile of the bacterial growth should be provide together with nutrient addition in Fig. 5. As presented culture was feed when nutrients, (carbon or nitrate) were exhausted, what happened with the bacterial growth? When the stationary phase started? Since the assimilation of nitrate did decrease after 150 hours of culture (Fig. 6). Does the production yield change along the feed-batch culture? What is the pH of the culture? and how do you control it? no information is provided. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Strategies for improved rhamnolipid production by Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA1 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2078v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 20, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
