Review History for Bioinformatics analysis of the structural and evolutionary characteristics for toll-like receptor 15 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Bioinformatics analysis of the structural and evolutionary characteristics for toll-like receptor 15 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 26th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 17th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 2nd, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 3rd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Fulvio D'Acquisto
·
May 3, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All the points raised by the reviewer have been addressed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 2, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Fulvio D'Acquisto
·
Mar 17, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
It seems to me that both reviewers have done a great job and provided very constructive comments. I am confident that addressing as many points that has been raised as possible will greatly improve the impact of the study.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 1, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript by Wang et al., provides an analysis of TLR15 from a wide range of species and including phylogenetic, interspecies polymorphism analyses and some predicted structural analyses. Although the title suggests that the manuscript deals with the evolution of this TLR the data does not cover this topic effectively. The title also indicates that this TLR has a unique activation mechanism, a statement based entirely on work presented in a single paper (deZoete et al., 2011 PNAS) which reported activation based upon enzymatic cleavage, primarily using Proteinase K to cleave the TLR. Other manuscripts report activation of TLR15 but do not report cleavage, in particular the paper Oven et al., Vet Res 2013 appears to have been completely overlooked, this paper reports TLR15 activation by diacyelated lipopeptide (and not an enzyme). This area is not adequately introduced or discussed. The abstract mentions self-activation of TLR15 (line 2), which has never been proposed and appears to be a mistake. Similarly it is unclear what massive whole genomes means (line 4). A similar error is made in the discussion. The abstract also indicates that TLR15 is a member of family 1 within the TLR and this is not strongly supported in any of the papers that offer phylogenetic analyses (e.g. Roach et al. 2005, Boyd et al., 2012, Alcaide and Edwards 2011) or in the work performed within the current manuscript (that does include more examples of TLR15 from different species). TLR15’s lie in a clade that is separate from all other vertebrate TLR. The analyses in the current manuscript uses the whole TLR sequence and this is questionable since the extracellular PRR containing domains are too variable between TLR to effectively align TLRs from distant groups. The work of other groups is also not adequately discussed in the current manuscript. The abstract also identifies the potential for TLR15 to form TIR domain homodimers this is as expected with most TLR including TLR2 (which forms both homodimers and heterodimers) (note the current manuscript suggests TLR2 only forms heterodimers). (also an issue in the introduction and discussion). The abstract also indicates sites where positive selection can be identified and does not discuss these in the context of the Alcaide and Edwards 2011 paper. Introduction last paragraph, what is a partial reptilian species? Results: Where the authors discuss intact or broken asparagine ladders the TLR1/2 are used as a comparison but if TLR15 is unrelated (especially in its extracellular domain then why should we expect them to be more like TLR1/2 and not others with intact asparagine ladders, some examples are given in the text (without citation or reference to work done for this manuscript). Indeed this analysis should be done for all avian TLR and then each compared with TLR15. Similarly to place the work on TLR15 into context then all of the analyses presented in the manuscript should be done on a range of different TLR. There are comments on identifying a site for proteolytic cleavage without any real justification or discussion in the context of the deZoete et al., 2011 paper. Do the regions identified match each other? A typo on line 233….pro-life rich rather than proline Discussion: The opening comment that TLR15 is “traditionally” considered a member of the TLR1 family is simply not true. The discussion of TLR15 TIR domain homodimers should be bolstered by the known ability to signal when transfected into HEK293 cells (without any other TLR) (deZoete and Boyd papers). Overall this manuscript contains a series of bioinformatic and protein structure modelling approaches linked to TLR15 and to become a meaningful set of comparisons should include comparisons to all other TLR (and not just TLR1/2 members).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The research question is not entirely clear and it would be much more meaningful if the analyses compared all of the TLR (then it might conclude that TLR15 is unusual or comparable to other TLR).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Overall seem fair but based either on bioinformatics or simulation of structures, there was no validation of any of the findings. With Figure 4 it is unclear what the SEM relate to. The choices of colors for many of the structural figures (particularly maroon and turquoise) are not the best choices (particularly in the context of people who are red-green colorblind).
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Bioinformatics analysis of the structural and evolutionary characteristics for toll-like receptor 15 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2079v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Robert Brownlie ·
Mar 17, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments. Suggested changes are given below
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Because all the findings are based on bioinformatics, conclusions of the function and structure of TLR15 are speculative and the wording should be changed to indicate this.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This article describes an analysis of structural and evolutionary properties of TLR15 based solely on bioinformatics. Thus most of the conclusions are speculative unless verified by experiments and this should be stated in the text. I think it is an overstatement to conclude “these findings help better understand the unique activation mechanism and the molecular basis for signal transduction of TLR15”. It is more accurate to say that the observations suggest structural features of TLR15 which may be relevant to its function but which require experimental validation. Specific points are: 1. The title could be much better – it is not a comprehensive analysis and is based on bioinformatics and TLR15 should be in the title. 2. Abstract L30 – TIR domains have the potential to form homodimers. 3. Roach 2005 also demonstrated that TLR15 clustered into an individual Clade although most closely related to family 1 – this should be cited. 4. L187. “To chicken TLR15” should be “For chicken TLR15” 5. L248-250. It is not clear what the functional study is. These two sentences need to be reworded. 6.L271-279. TLRs other than those of the family 1 form homodimers – this is not unique to TLR15 7. L274. may recruit downsteam adaptor in the form of a homodimer 8. L276. In a previous study, Cite this review as
Brownlie R ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Bioinformatics analysis of the structural and evolutionary characteristics for toll-like receptor 15 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2079v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 26, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
