Review History for Salt taste after bariatric surgery and weight loss in obese persons [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Salt taste after bariatric surgery and weight loss in obese persons To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 29th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 29th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 4th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 5th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jara Pérez-Jiménez
·
May 5, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I think the manuscript has improved with the modifications included by the authors. Now, the diferent aspects raisen by the reviewers are clearer. Therefore, the manuscript is now acceptable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 4, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jara Pérez-Jiménez
·
Mar 29, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please carefully consider the comments raised by the reviewers, specially those regarding methodological aspects of the study. Please also note the annotated manuscript provided by reviewer 1.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 25, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I find no areas where the article fails to meet PeerJ standards. Some language editing is required, and decimal points replace commas throughout the MS. Other comments in the attached PDF.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is appropriate for measuring potential threshold changes and differences. However, the variability in the soup-liking estimations pretty much makes this measure useless for interpretation of results. Authors might have considered a wider range of sodium concentrations.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The threshold findings are of interest. The soup findings are problematical, cf above.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Authors should address the difference between threshold and suprathreshold measures of taste. There are findings relating threshold and preference and intake, but I believe the preponderance of the evidence dissociates the two.1) they should distinguish in their introduction, discussion, and referencing between the two - they are not the same! 2) They should consider this difference in reference to their chosen methodology. I understand that they may have done so (without adequate rationalisation or explanation) in including the soup test, but its weakness undermines the interest in the report. This issue is central to the import of the paper, namely, whether the surgery alters the preference, and potentially intake, of food in relation to its sodium content.This might be an important issue for the health and dietary guidance of these patients. This paper is. unfortunately, limited in contributing insight to the issue. Nevertheless, I would encourage the authors to address the issues appropriately so that the threshold data will be available to guide further research. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Salt taste after bariatric surgery and weight loss in obese persons (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2086v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Werd Al-Najim ·
Mar 29, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Introduction lacks information on the importance of this study. Why is altered salt taste is important in patients after RYGB? How is this going to aid weight loss or weight loss maintenance?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Line 103/104 were the tastants prepared using tab water or distilled water? i.e. was the mineral contents of tab water considered in the preparation of the tastants?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Line 118 Please consider changing ‘table water’ to ‘tab water’ Line 176 increased grams of salt means decrease detection sensitivity hence higher detection thresholds, please consider changing it to ‘Furthermore, a non-significant increase in the salt detection threshold of the patients was observed after bariatric surgery’. This was explained correctly in line 206. Table 3 Please give example of salt level in a typical type of soup or cream soup Cite this review as
Al-Najim W ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Salt taste after bariatric surgery and weight loss in obese persons (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2086v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 29, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
