Review History for Genetic markers of inflammation may not contribute to metabolic traits in Mexican children [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Genetic markers of inflammation may not contribute to metabolic traits in Mexican children To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 25th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 20th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 5th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 7th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Daniela Foti
·
May 7, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have very satisfactorily addressed all the issues raised by the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 5, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Daniela Foti
·
Apr 20, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript is, in general, well written. From the experimental point of view, the authors should indicate whether they have data about inflammatory serum markers. If not, they should discuss this issue and conclusions should be softened in the light of the results obtained.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 30, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper fulfills all PeerJ criteria for publication. The writing is clear, professional, unambiguous. The introduction & background provide appropriate context for the work. The literature is well referenced & relevant. The overall structure conforms to PeerJ standards. The Figures are relevant, reasonable quality, reasonably well labelled & described. Raw data is supplied.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Per the PeerJ publishing rules, the fact that these results lack impact and novelty and are negative/inconclusive does not represent a bar to publication although they may somewhat diminish readership enthusiasm. Given the modestly suggestive associations, replication in a second cohort might have been useful although understandably this was not done. The rationale & benefit to the literature is clearly stated. The data appear to be robust, statistically sound, & controlled. The conclusions are well stated, linked to original research question but unfortunately are not strictly limited to the supporting results. Some statements in the discussion, which are reflected in the title, are overly speculative and not supported by the results. On the other hand, limitations and defects in the study are clearly laid out in the penultimate paragraph of the discussion.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The meaning of these negative findings is unclear and is inconsistent with some of the sweeping generalizations in the discussion, which are mirrored in the title. The title and several statements in the discussion are not supported by the results and are somewhat misleading. To their credit, the authors clearly and unequivocally acknowledge the limitations and defects of the study in the penultimate paragraph of the discussion. However, these limitations are completely ignored in two other paragraphs which make sweeping generalizations which are unfortunately reflected in the title which is simply incorrect and should be changed to something more modest. It appears that different parts of the manuscript are not talking to each other. It is not clear why only these 5 genes and these 6 variants were chosen. The literature provides a plethora of inflammation-related genes which are associated with metabolic disorders including obesity and type 2 diabetes, including many from Genome Wide Association Studies, that could potentially have been selected. The rationale for the selections is not clearly stated. This study provides no evidence that inflammation is either a cause or consequence of metabolic disorders. In any case causation cannot be unequivocally established using association/correlation/regression methods. Small candidate gene association studies, such as this one, have been unproductive in the past and have largely been superseded by high throughput next generation genotyping and sequencing methods, whether targeted at individual genes of interest, or at the level of the whole genome. Many such studies have been performed with vastly greater power than is available in this study. Given the relatively small sample size, it is difficult to make broad extrapolations from the data. The study is clearly underpowered to detect meaningful associations with metabolic traits, and the authors clearly acknowledge this. Two advantages of this study, which differentiate it from most previous studies, are that it was performed in a cohort that was (i) Mexican, and (ii) children only. In principle this is a valuable cohort for future studies if they can be more expansive in terms of the genetic variants examined. Two key examples of some problematic, overly broad statements in the manuscript, which are not supported by the evidence, include the following (and these need to be changed): The Title: Genetic markers of inflammation do not contribute to metabolic traits in Mexican children. Discussion: "These data support the hypothesis that low-grade inflammation may be seen as a consequence rather than a cause in the development of diverse metabolic disorders." This is not supported by the evidence in the paper, nor by the literature cited (much of which is association based rather than mechanistic/causal). In general a good clearly written manuscript that needs a little restraint in the conclusions drawn. This interesting cohort should serve as a springboard to more exciting studies in the future. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Genetic markers of inflammation may not contribute to metabolic traits in Mexican children (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2090v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 7, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Within this study Neeti Vashi and colleagues investigated potential associations of genetic markers of Inflammation and metabolic traits in a cohort of ~1500 Mexican children. They detected nominal associations of two variants in IL-10 and HNF1A with LDL as a continuous trait and family history of hypertension as a binary trait which did not withstand adjustment for multiple testing. Their results indicate that there is no causal link between inflammatory genetic markers and metabolic traits. The study is novel and valid in the context of childhood obesity and the paper is well and clearly written. The introduction is rather extensive and would benefit from shortening especially in the first part (lines 49-62) which is on more general aspects of obesity.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors tested the association of genetic markers of Inflammation with metabolic traits. However, they do not provide evidence that those genetic markers are associated with inflammatory serum parameters (hsCRP, IL-6, TNFa). Is there data from children studies showing that the association between the genetic markers and low-grade inflammation is evident? Is there any inflammatory serum parameter available in the cohort? If not please extend discussion on this point and weaken your conclusion since you do not measure inflammation in those children.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
"No Comments"
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
1. Abstract The authors mention the results after adjustment for multiple testing in the abstract but not in the results part. Please include in the results. 2. Methods The authors state that your selection of SNPs for the study was based on "convincing" associations (line 140). Please define convincing. 3. Methods Statistical analyses in lean and obese children are usually based on BMI percentiles and z-score rather than BMI. Did the authors use percentile-based reference data? Is the data specific for children? Please give ranges for the grouping into weight Groups. 4. Methods Lines 178-183 The authors performed tests for normal distribution before statistical analyses and log-transformed some of the parameters accordingly. However, some of the parameters (FG, HDL, LDL) still deviated from normality. Still the authors used linear regression analyses which is based on normal distribution. Why didn't they perform non-parametric test's for these parameters? Please explain. 5. Methods Is there data on pubertal stage and was this included as a parameter for adjustment? 6. Discussion line 217 I think it shoul read "The number of significant P-values" 7. Table 1 What does mgl/dl stand for? Does it mean mg/dl? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Genetic markers of inflammation may not contribute to metabolic traits in Mexican children (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2090v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 25, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
