Review History for Consequences for selected high-elevation butterflies and moths from the spread of Pinus mugo into the alpine zone in the High Sudetes Mountains [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Consequences for selected high-elevation butterflies and moths from the spread of Pinus mugo into the alpine zone in the High Sudetes Mountains To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 16th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 11th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 4th, 2016 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 9th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Stuart Pimm
·
May 9, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You have satisfied the reviewers in my estimation. But, the point of the title is well taken. Please change it!
label_author_1
Konrad Fiedler ·
May 6, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I have not much to add in comparison with my comments on the first version. The changed title is misleading, since the second part of the paper (the inter-mountain comparison across Central European regions) mostly is concerned with moths, NOT butterflies. Suggestion for improved title: Consequences for selected high-elevation butterflies and moths of the spread of Pinus mugo into the alpine zone in the High Sudetes Mts.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This is well explained and now fits to the goals of the study, in its revised version.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are important for the conservation biology of alpine habitats, above the tree line, in those lower mountain areas where only very limited amount of such habitats does exist as relict from the (post-)glacial periods. The results are based on solid statistical evaluation of sufficiently large and representative samples.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The revision was very well done. To my perception, all important issues raised by the two reviewers have adquately been dealt with. Cite this review as
Fiedler K ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Consequences for selected high-elevation butterflies and moths from the spread of Pinus mugo into the alpine zone in the High Sudetes Mountains (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2094v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 4, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Stuart Pimm
·
Apr 11, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As you can see, the reviewers are both favourable, but they both raise a number of points. My sense is that you can address these quickly and thus I encourage yo to do so. The standard 55 days (below) will put this well into my field season, when my ability to make a final decision will be limited. So, if you can do this quickly, that would help!
label_author_2
Konrad Fiedler ·
Mar 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This paper reports on butterfly communities associated with isolated relict alpine grassland habitats situated in mountain areas of moderate elevation in Central Europe. Climate change and forestry (viz. introduction of pine in earlier decades) have facilitated the expansion of dwarf pine there. The authors wish to establish whether this expanding invasive woody plant species might threaten local butterfly assemblages. The paper is well written, the context of the study is well laid out and supported with references and maps. The overall structure of the paper is OK. Figures are all relevant, but I suggest improving their quality. For example, avoid abbreviations for predictor vectors in the ordination diagrams. It would also be helpful for readers to see indicated by some symbol which of the vectors in the ordination diagrams carry more variance than expected by chance (according to the Monte Carlo permutation tests reported in the text). In Fig. 4, the x-axis is not logical. How could pine cover become negative at all? This axis must start with zero % and end with 100 %! In this same figre, what is the unit for "response" on the y-axis? This should be very explicitly said. Finally, I always prefer to see the real data points being shown, and not only the regression lines. Site codes in Fig. 6 (the cluster dendrogram) should strictly be identical to those used in Table 4 (or vice versa). Please take care that these codes are fully coherent throughout the paper! Overall, this is a technically sound and well described study - which has been very substantially improved relative to an earlier version that, by chance, I had for review some months ago.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The design of the study is clear. At the spatial scale of the Czech mountain tops, only the Erebia ringlets have been evaluated - they accounted for the vast majority of records and are also ecologically bound to grassland habitats in mountain areas. Thus, it is useful to focus on them. On the regional scale, incidence data have been assembled for a wide range of Lepidopteran species characteristic for high elevation habitats of this type of mountains. Accordingly, the analysis has taken a different route here. Research questions are well defined, and the research fills an identified knowledge gap. the use of yellow traps for butterfly community assessment may appear a bit unusual, but since the analysis is focused on Erebia species which obviously were recorded easily with that approach, there is nothing wrong with that. Statistical methodology is adequate and state of the art.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I found the results convincingly worked out. Beyond the more narrow community of researchers interested in butterfly ecology, the findings are meaningful also in the context of conservation biology and climate change research. The data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled. I was a bit disappointed to see that, while in Erebia ringlets the two sexes have been evaluated separately with regard to their response to pine cover and other site descriptors, this thread has not been taken up again in the discussion. Are there any cases where your data indicate that sexes respond differently? Fig 3 suggests this at best to be the case with E. sudetica. Why could that be so, what differences in habitat requirements between the sexes could be reflected here? Otherwise, I found the conclusions and interpretations sound and not exceeding what has been demonstrated through the data and analyses.
Cite this review as
Fiedler K ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Consequences for selected high-elevation butterflies and moths from the spread of Pinus mugo into the alpine zone in the High Sudetes Mountains (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2094v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Roger Kitching ·
Apr 11, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This work is fundamentally sound although confusing in parts. How significant the results are is debatable although given the hothouse nature of conservation debates in Europe it probably deserves to be published. First the authors have shown clear effects of the spread of Pinus mugo on three alpine species of Erebia butterfly (only). All the other species they encountered are generalists with wide altitudinal and ecosystematic ranges, many of which are also noted for their long-distance movement capacity. That the spread of an overgrowing shrub is impacting upon sedentary species whose larvae feed on grasses is not surprising although the documentation is sound.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The work on butterflies is sound although using any form of trap for butterflies is notoriously variable and selective. Most butterfly surveys rely on transect walks rather than traps - but with this caveat the results are sound - especially (perhaps only) for Erebia butterflies which seem well sampled by the water traps. The work on 'diagnostic' species of (mainly) moths (lines 217-222) is unexplained. Where did this distributional data come from - certainly not from any trapping effort of the authors. I presume it is a meta-analysis based on published atlas data somewhere - if the authors explain this then I have missed that explanation somewhere. In a similar vein authors need be careful about claiming levels of generality for their results - butterflies are a small proportion of all Lepidoptera - as are the small group of 'diagnostics' they analyse further. These are not 'Lepidoptera communities' - whatever that means - but highly selected assemblages from within the Lepidoptera.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The findings, as far as they go, are valid. There is a temptation, not resisted by these authors, to regard ordinations as demonstrating relationships between multivariate data and putative driving variables. This is illusory. At best these ordinations allow hypotheses to be proposed for further testing - preferably by manipulation (which would be easily - if not legally - done in this case). There is nothing wrong with this very common approach using ordinations to rank driving variables (I have used it myself often) but the authors state clearly as to the limits of their analytical approach and the conclusions they draw from it. The conservation consequences of their findings are not discussed. The spread of Pinus mugo seems a natural response to warming - what lepidopteran species does it bring with it (several species of Thera for a start) - will these enrich the communities - the no change/no loss approach to conservation especially in alpine zones is surely a policy of despair - an interesting discussion to be had!
Comments for the author
Most of my comments for the authors are embedded above. The English needs a little editorial attention altho' meaning is generally clear. Cite this review as
Kitching R ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Consequences for selected high-elevation butterflies and moths from the spread of Pinus mugo into the alpine zone in the High Sudetes Mountains (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2094v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 16, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
