Review History for Detection of antibiotic-resistant bacteria endowed with antimicrobial activity from a freshwater lake and their phylogenetic affiliation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Detection of antibiotic-resistant bacteria endowed with antimicrobial activity from a freshwater lake and their phylogenetic affiliation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 14th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 26th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 9th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 11th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Paul Tulkens
·
May 11, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Although limited, the study provides interesting insights in the topic of study and should trigger larger scale investigations in this area.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 9, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Paul Tulkens
·
Apr 26, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please, pay attention to the comments of reviewer #1 and come with a version that takes them into account. If you disagree, tell us why. So, please, submit a detailed rebuttal. Your new version may be subjected to further review, which means that I cannot give any guarantee that the paper will eventually be accepted.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 21, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Manuscript is well written and findings are good. Authors used advance methods to establish facts. Please add few references of 2016.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Experimental design should be more appropriate and elaborated. Please add more details in the experimental section.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Findings are good and well established.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Detection of antibiotic-resistant bacteria endowed with antimicrobial activity from a freshwater lake and their phylogenetic affiliation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2103v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 25, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript “Detection of antibiotic resistant bacteria endowed with antimicrobial activity from fresh water lake and their phylogenetic affiliation" relates to an interesting topic of microbiology. Generally speaking the study looks sound and the data could be useful for the development of novel antibiotics against resistant organisms .The study is descriptive and has characterize the antibiotic resistant bacteria, which is a need for the day for the development of antibiotics. The authors have characterized the isolates based on their morphology and 16S rRNA gene sequence comparison with the database. Isolates were clustered using ERIC and BOX PCR profiles. Isolates were screened for antimicrobial activity as well as for the presence of two biosynthetic genes (PSKII and NRPS). The results are interesting and novelties of this work are the isolation of antibiotic resistant bacteria from the wet land of Mizoram, India, which were further characterize and shown the ability of antibiotic resistant and were characterize molecularly, which is quite appreciated. Authors also have been characterizing first time two isolates i.e. Novosphingobium and Bosea sp. from a wetland with biosynthetic potential, which can be exploited for the search of biologically active metabolites. Present work carried out by Zothanpuia et al. Is interesting and may be considered for publication in PeerJ.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is appropriate and authors have attempted required methodology for the proposed work. Material and methods is well presented and addressed all standard references for methodology.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Not required
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Head wise description is stated below Abstract – Abstract is well design and well presented with most of the findings as stated in the manuscript. Also, highlight the aims of this study and the fact that these isolates can be used exploited for the search of biologically active metabolites. Abundance is also mentioned nicely which is an add-on to the work. Introduction - Background information is nicely presented. Findings from previous studies are fully presented. I recommend elaborating a bit more on the literature here presented though I understand that LAM has world limit. The topic had introduced pretty well with the supported literature and I do also believe that bacterial population in fresh water sediments is of great importance in general understanding the aquatic ecosystem. Results and discussion: The result headings are well presented and appropriate references has been cited in the discussion part. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Detection of antibiotic-resistant bacteria endowed with antimicrobial activity from a freshwater lake and their phylogenetic affiliation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2103v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 14, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
