Review History for What flowers do we like? The influence of shape and color on the rating of flower beauty [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History What flowers do we like? The influence of shape and color on the rating of flower beauty To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 16th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 21st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 9th, 2016 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 14th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Anna Borghi
·
May 14, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am happy to inform you that your paper has been accepted for publication on PeerJ. I think it represents an interesting contribution to the studies aimed at understanding the basis of beauty perception. Congratulations, and thank you for your submission. Anna
label_author_1
Dermot Lynott ·
May 13, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
n/a
Experimental design
label_ed_1
n/a
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
n/a
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors have addressed my previous comments. I think there probably is scope for deeper theoretical analysis of the various evolutionary accounts for the observed preferences, but equally there is probably sufficient discussion for this empirical paper. Cite this review as
Lynott D ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "What flowers do we like? The influence of shape and color on the rating of flower beauty (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2106v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 9, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Anna Borghi
·
Mar 21, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Dr. Hula, I write regarding your manuscript, submitted to PeerJ. Attached below you will find the comments from two reviewers I asked to evaluate your work. I thank the reviewers for their work. As you will see, the reviewers profoundly diverge in their overall assessment of the paper: while reviewer 2 (Dermot Lynott) is optimistic about the eventual publishability of the work (minor revision), reviewer 1 proposes to reject the paper. On the basis of my own independent reading of your paper and of the reviewers reports, I have decided to give you a chance to review this manuscript for further consideration on this journal. I see some categories of issues that I consider crucial for a successful revision: A. Theoretical framing. The major limitation of the work is that its theoretical underpinnings should be better fleshed out (see comments of both reviewers). The authors refer in the discussion to theories of habitat selection; they might want to start discussing this theories ealier in the introduction, to motivate their study. The psychological literature on shape, color and on the relationship between shape and color during objects and entities recognition and representation can also be useful to strengthen the theoretical part of the paper (e.g. Bramao et al., 2011; Connel & Lynott, 2009; Morlino et al., 2015; Scorolli & Borghi, 2015; Therriault et al., 2009; many studies by Linda Smith, e.g. Smith 2005). B. Aim of the study. The authors should better clarify whether they intend to investigate mechanisms underlying beauty perception in general or beauty of flowers (see comments of reviewer 1). C. Design. I agree with reviewer 2 that sepia judgements could be lowered because of participant’s judgement of colored images. The authors should address this issue in their revision. I invite you to carefully address all the reviewers' comments. If you decide against implementing some suggestions, please explain the rationale in your rebuttal letter. Thank you for submitting your interesting work to PeerJ. Sincerely Anna Borghi
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 7, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this study the authors investigate what flowers do humans like. Participants completed two online questioners where they rated how beautiful they consider each flower and the prototypicality and complexity of each item. The authors investigated which properties contributed for the overall assessment of beauty and found that participants preferred blue flowers, with symmetrical and simple shapes.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The theoretical motivation for conducting the study is lacking. This is an exploratory study, where the research question is not supported by a clear and relevant theoretical background.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
If the question is to answer which properties contributes to for the beautiful perception of flowers, a control condition should have been included, in order to draw specific conclusions about the flowers. Such a control condition is absent. The way it is presented now, the study does not allow to draw specific conclusions about the beauty perception of flowers. The results can just be a reflection of the properties that are important for the beauty perception in general. Also, the previous knowledge about the items will determine how beautiful an item will be perceived. Controlling for the previous knowledge with the items is also important. This can be done by having participants rating non-objects shapes, where no previous knowledge about the items could contribute for the beauty perception.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "What flowers do we like? The influence of shape and color on the rating of flower beauty (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2106v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Dermot Lynott ·
Mar 18, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Basic reporting is clear and detailed, and the submission is self-contained. There is possibly no need for ANOVA tables in the main text.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The aim of the research is clear, and the authors highlight gaps in research on aesthetic judgements which motivates the current work. As this this work is outside my area, I can only accept this at face value. The methods are clearly described, along with selection criteria, procedure and analytical choices. There are several hypotheses, clearly made. Where sometimes it seemed that the background literature could support or contradict some of these predictions, the authors are clear on the lack of a directional prediction (e.g., bilateral vs radial symmetry). I have one concern about the design that may be worth considering. Because participants saw both colour and sepia images, it is possible that this contrast lead people to rate the colour flowers more positively overall. In other words, sepia judgements were lowered because of participant’s exposure to and judgement of colour images. It’s an empirical question, but I suspect if people judged only sepia images you would see an increase in the variance of ratings of the sepia images, relative to the current study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The analysis seems appropriate and thorough. In one or two places in the manuscript I have asked for additional details. The conclusions are appropriate, although I think it would be nice to flesh out in the discussion the specific aspects of the findings that support the referenced theories of habitat selection ecological valence theory. Also, are there any aspects of the findings that count against particular theoretical perspectives?
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Lynott D ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "What flowers do we like? The influence of shape and color on the rating of flower beauty (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2106v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 16, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
