Review History for Gene expression analysis of overwintering mountain pine beetle larvae suggests multiple systems involved in overwintering stress, cold hardiness, and preparation for spring development [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Gene expression analysis of overwintering mountain pine beetle larvae suggests multiple systems involved in overwintering stress, cold hardiness, and preparation for spring development To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 24th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 7th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 16th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 16th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Abhishek Kumar
·
May 16, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All the minor concerns about this manuscript were answered, this manuscript is accepted. Congratulations.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 16, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Abhishek Kumar
·
Apr 7, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
We have good news for you - three reviewers were consistently extremely positive about your manuscript and identified only minor grammatical errors. Please go through the comments raised by reviewers and update your manuscript before we formally accept it.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 17, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper meets these standards.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
It is a well designed study and certainly meets these standard.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are valid.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
There are several sentences that need work. line 22. delete 'outbreaks', it was said earlier in the sentence line 40. delete 'by the insect' . There are a number of places where in bold it says 'Error! Reference source not found' I do not know what this means. Line 128 and 129. Delete second 'both' Line 233. Delete 'is' Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Gene expression analysis of overwintering mountain pine beetle larvae suggests multiple systems involved in overwintering stress, cold hardiness, and preparation for spring development (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2109v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 5, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Basic reporting: The paper is well-done, though there are some grammatical issues (see below). It is the appropriate length. I would have liked to see some thoughts on the activity of cuticle-related transcripts, which to some extent show some coordinate regulation. Figures and tables are appropriate l. 21 “a large outbreak of mountain pine beetle, Dendroctonus ponderosae Hopkins (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) outbreak in British Columbia” l. 39“Because of the recent move of this insect across the Rocky Mountains by the insect and into the jack pine forests” l. 120“representing 4.43% of the 13,088 gene models” sounds like there are 13,088 models. Is the meaning here 13, 088 predicted genes? l. 230“One transcript that was annotated as an alcohol dehydrogenase increased significantly between September and November, but does not show a significant decrease in transcription during the spring months” please identify l. 232“Because transcript expression data is doesn’t necessarily correspond to functional protein levels in the cell,”
Experimental design
label_ed_2
: no problems here.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Validity of the findings: one potential minor problem is that the RNA-Seq data are not verified by qRT-PCR. A statement about the reliability of the method (i.e. referencing Huber’s previous work with the technique) would help.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Gene expression analysis of overwintering mountain pine beetle larvae suggests multiple systems involved in overwintering stress, cold hardiness, and preparation for spring development (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2109v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Apr 6, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript by Robert et al. presents a transcriptomic analysis of mountain pine beetle larvae collected at various periods spanning the beginning and end of overwintering. The structure of the article conforms to PeerJ standards and is written in clear, professional English.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The experimental design is very good and the authors went to great lengths in making sure the transcriptomic data is solid, by performing biological replicates. This design compensates for the lack of validation by Q-PCR, which is usually required in this type of study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No comments
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "Gene expression analysis of overwintering mountain pine beetle larvae suggests multiple systems involved in overwintering stress, cold hardiness, and preparation for spring development (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2109v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 24, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
