Review History for Amino-acid site variability among natural and designed proteins [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Amino-acid site variability among natural and designed proteins To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 3rd, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 12th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on October 24th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 24th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Oct 24, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I beleive that you adequately addressed the comments of both reviewers and therefore the manuscript can be accepted in its present form.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 24, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Oct 12, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address critical points raised by both reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 12, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This study describes an analysis of how well different design protocols (that incorporate an increasing degree of backbone flexibility) reproduce native sequence profiles (from PFAM). Two sets are analyzed: one of yeast proteins, the other of domains. The subject is well introduced, and a basic background is given. Overall basic reporting adheres to the guidelines of PeerJ
Experimental design
label_ed_1
In a large scale redesign study, different proteins are redesigned under different conditions (e.g. fixed backbone, soft design, and backrub-based design - using increasing temperatures to obtain increased variability of the backbone conformations). I have one minor comment regarding the evaluation of differences between designed and natural sequences using a rank-order instead of actual frequencies. The authors correctly observe that with increased numbers of sequences, the distributions of amino acid frequencies at a given position tend to get flatter, and thus differences cold arise. They therefore apply a different measure that should get rid of these biases by comparing ranks rather than values. The explanation of the authors as to what exactly is compared should be clarified more. In principle, this looks to me like using a non-parametric rank test, but the details indicate that this is not the case. In particular, the following sentence is not clear: "This way of calculating the KL divergence compares the frequencies of amino acids at equal frequency rank, regardless of which specific amino acids are the most frequent, second-most frequent, and so on in each alignment." Also, no details of the parameters of the rosetta design runs are included. Which version of rosetta was used, and what were the specific flags? E.g., did the authors use additional rotamers?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The main findings show that incorporation of backbone flexibility increases sequence variability (which was too low in fixed backbone design compared to natural sequences), but if too much flexibility is added, the variability is too much increased. A suggestion of some hybrid approach is presented that uses different degrees of backbone flexibility to design exposed or buried residues. the way the two are combined might be problematic as redesign of one position is influenced by the neighboring positions.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Amino-acid site variability among natural and designed proteins (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.211v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 12, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Although computational protein design generate sequences that maximize the structural similarity w.r.t a given native fold, functionally very few of those designed sequences mirror the native fold. So, a detailed study of the extent of similarity/dissimilarity between the designed and the natural sequences can be informative for improvement of existing protein design algorithms. The authors have framed this question of interest in a lucid way and appropriate background have been provided.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Both data presentation and data analysis have been extremely thorough and sound and connects/address the stated question.The authors consider two distinct data sets, one of yeast proteins and one of yeast protein domains. Through a systematic comparison between the alignments of designed and natural sequences, the authors have teased apart how sequence patterns/features in the former differ from the latter under different design conditions, such as backbone flexibility.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
All the data have been interpreted and particularly, the authors have done a great job in providing detailed physical explanations of all the data/result, be it expected or unexpected. The discussion provides lots of crucial insights into things that are needed to be considered for improvement of protein design algorithm, e,g. inclusion of selection pressure, modification of solvation term etc.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors should use some other protein design tools that use different force fields and algorithms than RosettaDesign. This will show how much the observed difference in sequence pattern is robust or dependent on the algorithm and force-field. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Amino-acid site variability among natural and designed proteins (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.211v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 3, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
