Review History for A time-lapse photography method for monitoring salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) passage and abundance in streams [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A time-lapse photography method for monitoring salmon ( Oncorhynchus spp. ) passage and abundance in streams To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 28th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 11th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 19th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 19th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Magnus Johnson
·
May 19, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Great to see this one going through to publication. I have suggested some really minor edits that hopefully PeerJ staff can just implement: Line 51, space after full stop needed. Line 202, reference for segmented should be (Muggeo, 2008) Line 218, reference for boot should be (Canty and Ripley, 2016) Check reference Kohavi R (1995). Needs a newline I think. Add to reference list (I generated these using citation("package"). Muggeo, VMR (2008). segmented: an R Package to Fit Regression Models with Broken-Line Relationships. R News, 8/1, 20-25. URL http://cran.r-project.org/doc/Rnews/ Canty, A and Ripley, B (2016). boot: Bootstrap R (S-Plus) Functions. R package version 1.3-18.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 19, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Magnus Johnson
·
May 11, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers agreed that this is a useful paper that requires only minor revisions. I have also uploaded a pdf with some suggestions. My main request would be that you make it clear what R packages you used and to cite them. I was unable to download the R code you deposited.
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 10, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Report meets the basic reporting requirements. I would suggest more recent literature cite on different monitoring techniques. See American Fisheries Society
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Approximately 120000 photos were reviewed each month which seems like a large amount of work especially during the peak passage time during the middle of July. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "A time-lapse photography method for monitoring salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) passage and abundance in streams (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2120v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 8, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall the flow, organization and structure of the paper adhere to a standard research paper outline. I do have some phasing, tense and rewording suggestions below: Abstract Over all the abstract is very well written and does a good job of conveying the scope of this study. Suggestions below. Line 1: I would not start both the introduction and abstract with the same sentence Line 13: I would also not include the cost and effectiveness of the camera technology in the abstract, include only an over view of the entire research, if you must put the cost in dollars I would add it to the discussion section and even then I would recommend reporting the cost in terms of the per portion of money saved for example "this system costs only 1/3 or less than these other systems." Introduction In general the Introduction does a good job of conveying the importance of the research and the benefits of its application to Salmon research, I do have some suggestions below. Line 24: Rephrase "decide when to open and close fisheries" to "improve management timing of fisheries" Line 27: I would cite a reference at the end of this sentence if you have one. Line 31: Tense chance "at different times and in different locations tends to have more stable interannual abundance than," I would chance the tense on "tends" to "tend to have a more stable interannual..." Line 34: Re phase "so it is important that we have the tools to investigate" to read "hence the importance of having the tools..." Line 44: I would more evenly distribute the four citations at the end of this sentence throughout the paragraph, each one at the end of the sentence to of which it most pertains, similar to the sentence on lines 45 and 46. Line 45: I wouldn't start this sentence with Also, just start with "Consumers are..." Line 49: I would rephrase "because they are expensive, time consuming, and alter salmon behavior." to read "given high financial costs, investment of time and the potential to alter salmon behavior." Line 68: Tense Change, "movements is common" to "are common." Line 87: Again I recommend not including the cost of the technology in the paper unless in the discussion. It would be best in the supplemental materials. Methods Line 104: Tense change, We can determine to "we determined." Results Line 281: Change "an 5 day" to a 5 day and 2 day increase. Discussion Lines 301-304: Are the conditions, predators, river gradients and over all conditions etc similar to those of the wood river and the results shown by Carlson 2007? Lines 380-383: The final paragraph does a good job summarizing the importance of the study but I would relocate the last two sentences to just after the first sentence of the last paragraph. Suggestions for Tables and Figures: Table one is fairly large and admittedly needs re adjustment, perhaps removal of the "manned" column would help with this. And removal would not deter from the overall message as it is somewhat self explanatory. I would also recommend highlighting the row titles at the top of table two, similar to the column titles. For consistency I suggest capitalizing the words "video counts" and "photo counts" in the second figure. Lastly it may be worth creating all the figures with the same program, but then again this may not be possible.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
All in all the experimental design seems well founded and technically sound. The fact that is has previous statistical founding adds more credence to the report. Methods are described clearly and the research question is clearly defined. Below I have some concerns and suggestions. Line 131: Does the majority of salmon movement and activity really take place between the hours of 12pm to 8pm? Do you have a reference for this? Line 151: Why did you sample for a "non random" sub sample of hours, why not use a random sample of hours to attain less biased estimates? Line 219: Were stream conditions measured in 2014 similar to the year this data was detected? Line 238: Having an estimate of the number of consumers would not be bad given the effects a great number could have on the run, if it is available.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings presented in this research appear valid and statistically sound and controlled. Data is provided and conclusions are well stated. Speculation is identified wherever present. I would still stress the importance of not including the cost of the camera tech in the paper as this research should hopefully not be used as a tech selling platform.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
All in all I was very impressed by this research paper and wish the authors luck with its publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "A time-lapse photography method for monitoring salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.) passage and abundance in streams (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2120v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 28, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
