Review History for Pleistocene phylogeography and cryptic diversity of a tiger beetle, Calomera littoralis, in North-Eastern Mediterranean and Pontic regions inferred from mitochondrial COI gene sequences [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Pleistocene phylogeography and cryptic diversity of a tiger beetle, Calomera littoralis , in North-Eastern Mediterranean and Pontic regions inferred from mitochondrial COI gene sequences To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 30th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 16th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 21st, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 23rd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Rita Castilho
·
May 23, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your revisions of the manuscript in response to the referees suggestions. I have read through the manuscript and am satisfied with your response and revisions, such that I am happy to move the manuscript forward to production. I note that you did not change the starting sentence of the discussion section of the abstract, and I urge you to rephrase it.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 21, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Rita Castilho
·
May 16, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for submitting your manuscript to PEERJ. I encourage you to read the reviews and the attached pdf file very carefully, and respond to each and every individual comment. I do not agree with referee 2, regarding the use of a single marker of mitochondrial origin. The timeframe of the main questions addressed in the manuscript is compatible with the use of mitochondrial marker and does, therefore, not constitute a problem. Moreover, the authors clearly state that “Based on the mitochondrial DNA marker only we cannot also conclude, whether the secondary contact of the divergent lineages affected in hybridization and or introgression. Answering this question requires employment of nuclear marker, what leaves a space for the future studies – much wider in terms of geographic coverage and molecular markers used.” However, the geographical coverage of this work in comparison with the known geographical distribution of the species is a more serious problem, that needs to be clearly addressed. If you are willing to send a thoroughly carefully revised version, I would be happy to reconsider your manuscript resubmission. In your structured abstract, do not start the Discussion point with: “This might be due…”. State clearly what “this” is.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 9, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript is very nice contribution on the phylogeography of the tiger beetle species in the biodiversity important region. It is well structures, includes all the necessary components and meets the Scope and policies of the journal. Figures are relevant, their resolution cannot be judged based on PDF, but I believe authors will provide suitable originals if the MS is accepted. Maybe the only exception is Figure 2. I know it is not the most important, but it would look much better, if it is redrawn with more patience. Now it looks like drawn with shaking hand, elytra are asymmetric etc. Regarding measurements shown in Figure 2, it is necessary to keep in mind that length is something from the beginning to the end and width from side to side, as marked in elytra. The same should be to head and pronotum, thus measurements 2 and 4 are lengths and 3 an 5 are widths. Also, I would suggest excluding mandibles from TBL, since they are movable, and so might cause inaccurate measures. I was not able to look at the GenBank data, they were not available during preparing this review. Finally, I must say I English is not my native language, however, I would strongly recommend authors to check it. It sounds to me as if I write it and I feel it is not very good.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Here I have no comments, the research is original, well described and interpreted.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In my opinion, findings described in this contribution are well supported, allowing authors to bring new evidence and new knowledge on the evolution of biota in the studied region.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Few comments were made in the PDF. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Pleistocene phylogeography and cryptic diversity of a tiger beetle, Calomera littoralis, in North-Eastern Mediterranean and Pontic regions inferred from mitochondrial COI gene sequences (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2128v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 12, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
see general comments below
Experimental design
label_ed_2
see general comments below
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
see general comments below
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall, this is an interesting study on Tiger Beetles in the eastern portion of the Balkans and Black Sea based on CO1 sequences. This paper, however, suffers from sampling and methodological issues. While sampling in the region is excellent, it only covers a small portion of the distribution of the species, letting the reader wonder what the entire story is. The use of a single molecular mitochondrial marker is problematic. The use of CO1, a relatively conserved region, usually used for barcoding, not population genetics, adds to the less than ideal methodological approach. The lack of testing for evolutionary models and the use of Neighbor-Joining is common for barcoding studies, less so for population genetics studies. Nevertheless, while results remain very interesting, they also raise some major questions. The presence of a southern haplotype in the north may be due to several scenarios (presence of sister species, hybridization, or a simple cline. This is a question that can easily be resolved using nuclear markers. Two decades ago, such a study would have been truly fantastic, but it is currently below the standards of the field to leave this issue as an open question due to the use of a single molecular marker. As much as I am not at all a champion of using multiple markers in all situations, the results presented here specifically require multiple markers to reach a definitive answer. I am therefore very sorry not being able to recommend this study for publication at this stage. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Pleistocene phylogeography and cryptic diversity of a tiger beetle, Calomera littoralis, in North-Eastern Mediterranean and Pontic regions inferred from mitochondrial COI gene sequences (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2128v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 30, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
