Review History for Identification, expression and variation of the GNPDA2 gene, and its association with body weight and fatness traits in chicken [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Identification, expression and variation of the GNPDA2 gene, and its association with body weight and fatness traits in chicken To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 3rd, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 21st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 13th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 23rd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Scott Edwards
·
May 23, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I did encounter a few minor grammatical errors. Presumably these can be fixed during the proof stage, or you may elect to send in a revised manuscript to fix the errors now. They are as follows: abstract: the GNPDA2 gene have —> the GNPDA2 gene has line 49: GNPDA2 gene encoded —> GNPDA2 gene encodes line 134: 2.5 GNPDA2 sequences blast —> 2.5 GNPDA2 blast analysis line 179: handled in compliance —> in compliance with what? Please specify. Line 195: and phylogeny analysis —> and phylogenetic analysis line 273: GNPDA2 is belongs to GlcN6P subfamily —> GNPDA2 belongs to the GlcN6P subfamily line 293: GNPDA2 gene expressed —> The GNPDA2 gene is expressed line 335: you may also want to thank the two anonymous reviewers for help improving the manuscript. Do you want to thank any funding organizations as well?
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 13, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Scott Edwards
·
Mar 21, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Your paper has been reviewed by two experts. Both find it interesting and scientifically valid but agree that there is a need to improve the English writing and provide more details on the experimental protocols and main aims of the paper. I recommend that you have an expert in English review your paper before submitting a revision. Please consider carefully all the points made by the reviewers before submitting your revision.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 18, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript might be a better fit in a poultry-based journal. There are extensive grammatical errors (inappropriate use of plurals or missing plurals, mixing up of prepositions, missing words, etc...). Suggestion is to have an English-speaking colleague review this manuscript before next submission. L30 productive = production? reproduction? L62 no caps on metabolism and amino L104 what is QG and QC, please define L123,1L25 need to correctly cite programs and software throughout L178 UCSC genome BLAT showed.. = UCSC genome BLAT was used to show... L182 missed whole exon 5 = was deleted? was missing? L190 Blasted analysis = Analysis by NCBI Blast (cite) showed... there are others...
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors could better define their research question, then tailor the discussion to provide evidence in support or not of their research question. The basic kits used in the analysis are fairly standard. Methods appear straight forward except for the grammatical errors. I couldn't find the titles or descriptions of the figures, so I can't comment on them.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors need to make a stronger case for why this is important to the poultry industry. This gene has been extensively evaluated in multiple species including humans. The authors set out "to characterize the functions of GNPDA2 gene in fat metabolism in chickens", but conclude that the genes they evaluated related to fat metabolism were not affected. This should be reflected in the structure of the discussion.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This manuscript might be a better fit in a poultry-based journal. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Identification, expression and variation of the GNPDA2 gene, and its association with body weight and fatness traits in chicken (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2129v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Anne-Lyse Ducrest ·
Mar 20, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors presented interesting data on the expression and SNPs of GNPDA2 gene in chicken fed on high fat diet or fasting. They found that the expression levels of GNPDA2 in different tissues are associated to the diet contents and that SNPs are associated to body weight. However, the quality of the data cannot really be estimated since a lot of precise information are missing or are not presented in a clear English. The most important one are the description in more detailed of the reverse transcription, the efficiency of each qPCR (see review of Bustin et al., 2009, Clinical Chemistry), the transfection details: amount of plasmid used for transfection, difference in cells viability, confluence, DNA preparation, the RFLP method…
Experimental design
label_ed_2
As mentioned above the authors presented an effect of the different GNPDA2 genotypes on the body parameters and variation in expression levels of the GNPDA2 for similar traits, they should check the genotypes of the chicken used for qPCR experiment, because it could be a confounding effect (result Fig: 4 and 5).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
This article suffers of pour English, and more detailed explanation and description of what was done. The discussion should be more detailed with comparison to other results and discussion of the results. However the findings are novel and interesting.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Fig 2 b is not really informative Cite this review as
Ducrest A ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Identification, expression and variation of the GNPDA2 gene, and its association with body weight and fatness traits in chicken (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2129v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 3, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
