Review History for Preferred temperature and thermal breadth of birds wintering in peninsular Spain: the limited effect of temperature on species distribution [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Preferred temperature and thermal breadth of birds wintering in peninsular Spain: the limited effect of temperature on species distribution To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 17th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 15th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 23rd, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 31st, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michael Wink
·
May 31, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors Good news- your revision is accepted and your paper will be published soon. Thanks for submitting your work to PeerJ Regards Michael Wink Academic editor
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 23, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Wink
·
Apr 15, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors Your ms has now been reviewed and the reviewers suggest a number of corrections. Please follow their advice when you resubmit your ms. Please discuss that temperatures alone can only explain some degree of the distribution. Consider the availability of food which correlates often with food plants. For them not the mean temperature counts but the extremes. Kind regards Michael Wink Academic editor
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 5, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is clearly structured and written.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methods employed were well presented and justified. The focus is on quantile regression which is a good way to analyze the data although one must take care to interpret the results properly.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The analyses are carried out and described in sufficient detail. I only would like to point out the difficulty in assessing the coefficients of the quadratic terms in the regression. Since they scale the quadratic, one would expect them to be lower than the linear term what makes a direct comparison of the absolute values a bit ambiguous (lines 161-162). At least figures 1 and 2d show, I would say, a clear dominance of the quadratic term
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The interpretation of the results stresses that other factors than temperature may govern species’ abundances. I agree with that and wonder whether this is the most important conclusion to draw from the results. The relationships between temperature and abundance depicted in the figures clearly indicate that temperature and/or closely associated factors are related to the variance in the abundance data rather than a measure of location such as mean or median. In fact, the median curve in Figure 1 is rather flat. This increased variance also implies higher maximum values. One should also note the frequent occurrence of zero valued abundances. Could one interpret this pattern by assuming that high and low temperatures (and/or related variables) are acting as constraints while intermediate temperatures do not and other factors determine abundance and thus result in these high variance domains. I am not sure whether I understood the very last sentence of the Conclusion and what it is intended to express. I have the feeling that it somewhat contradicts the preceding one. Lines 47-49: How relevant is this? Consider that the average lowest temperatures in S-Sweden are between 7 and 11°C during the breeding season. Line 157: “on average”: does this say much? Several sections indicate the low importance of temperature as such (lines 208-209, 248-249, 263-265), however, I got the admittedly subjective impression that the authors feel that this is embarrassing. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Preferred temperature and thermal breadth of birds wintering in peninsular Spain: the limited effect of temperature on species distribution (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2156v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 13, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In general, I consider the MS an interesting contribution. Please try to avoid too general statements such as before the Conclusions. Relatively few papers were cited. Imran Khaliq recently wrote about thermal niches of and the impact of climate change on bird and mammal species. Use past tense for the methods. Why are there so many species with preferred temperature at -2 and 10 °C, respectively (Fig. 3)? Some minor comments: 19, 48: use SI units separated from the preceding number by a blank, e.g. km² 42: better use destination instead of target 135-136: cite R and each R package separately using the version numbers 210: that are responsible OR that are the responsible ones 313: of a species 454: Fig. 2b shows Europe, not the W Palearctic Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Preferred temperature and thermal breadth of birds wintering in peninsular Spain: the limited effect of temperature on species distribution (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2156v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 17, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
