Review History for Artificial reefs and marine protected areas: a study in willingness to pay to access Folkestone Marine Reserve, Barbados, West Indies [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Artificial reefs and marine protected areas: a study in willingness to pay to access Folkestone Marine Reserve, Barbados, West Indies To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 5th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 2nd, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 28th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 6th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Robert Toonen
·
Jun 6, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Having read through your resubmission, I see that you have incorporated nearly all the suggested changes. Both referees were positive about your initial submission, and you have addressed the comments of each to my satisfaction with this revision. Therefore, I am happy to accept your manuscript and move it forward into production at this time.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 28, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Robert Toonen
·
Feb 2, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I am sorry for the considerable delay in getting this back to you - we had difficulty getting referees to respond over the holiday season, and just got the second review returned on your manuscript now. Both referees are supportive of your work with a few relatively minor comments for clarity, content or style for you to consider in your revisions. I agree with the majority of suggested changes, but they all appear relatively straightforward to me, so I do not expect you should have much difficulty with addressing them, and I look forward to seeing your revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Lida Teneva ·
Dec 10, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript passes all the areas, except the figure quality, on which I have some substantial comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Very good experimental design, addresses the questions they set out to answer; it is relevant and meaningful. There are high technical standards applied to the experimental design and the data analysis. The experiment appears to have been conducted within ethical standards in research on human subjects.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data appear to be statistically sounds, robust, and controlled.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a valuable study and raises some points which will encourage more research into this area of willingness to pay studies, the findings from which can effectively then be used to design dive fees that can be helpful for reef management. Novel study for quantifying and comparing both willingness to pay for natural reef viewing as well as for artificial reefs. Well-designed and statistically sound work. Insightful discussion, showing clear knowledge of the relevant literature and also how this study fits in with the pre-existing literature and moves our collective knowledge forward. I have some comments, which are mainly stylistic and a few content comments; they can be found in comment bubbles in the attached PDF file. But those should be easy to address. Very good work overall! Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Teneva L ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Artificial reefs and marine protected areas: a study in willingness to pay to access Folkestone Marine Reserve, Barbados, West Indies (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2175v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 27, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
There seems to be some confusion as to whether this is a donation or a user fee. Is it a donation to the park to manage and protect corals or is it a user fee to go snorkeling. I think it is important to clarify and to be consistent throughout the paper. Also, the user of the word "diver" and the information provided about dive quality and dive experience make it confusing as the analysis is only for snorkel trips. I also think the information in the introduction needs to be updated as the sources are, in some cases, up to 16 years old.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
My only concern is with the econometric analysis. Given the interdisciplinary nature of the audience it seems to me that you need more theory to inform the empirical model and the variables chosen. I would like to see the full model based on solid economic theory and at least report those results in a footnote in addition to the models reported. I would also like to see the difference between SCUBA and non-SCUBA participants and their Max WTP. The overall satisfaction with the trip and turtles seem like important variables of interest and should be included in the regression analysis.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I think that by emphasizing the potential problems and biases you provide a reason to be very skeptical of your results and possibly a reason to reject the paper. Perhaps you could look at the distribution of responses and tell us more about the reasons people gave and emphasize that less than half the bids fell between 10 and 20 dollars. You may also want to have two results sections - one for the WTP analysis and another for the reef material analysis. Both pieces are important but for expository reasons it may be helpful to have a distinct separation. Also, I would recommend having a 4.1 "Policy Recommendations" section. In that section I do not think you should suggest a $10 fee - let the analysis speak for itself.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I like this paper very much and think it will add to our understanding of user fees as a potential source of revenue for marine conservation in the Caribbean. With a little work, I think it should be published. I am attaching a copy of the paper with my hand-written notes in hopes this will make it easier for you to make the changes I have suggested. I would like to see the revised version of the paper, but if the editors feel comfortable with the changes I am willing to forgo reviewing the paper again. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Artificial reefs and marine protected areas: a study in willingness to pay to access Folkestone Marine Reserve, Barbados, West Indies (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2175v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 5, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
