Review History for Characterization of a biofilm-forming Shigella flexneri phenotype due to deficiency in Hep biosynthesis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Characterization of a biofilm-forming Shigella flexneri phenotype due to deficiency in Hep biosynthesis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 5th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 27th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on June 1st, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 6th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jiajie Diao
·
Jun 6, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
We would like to accept your manuscript for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 1, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jiajie Diao
·
May 27, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As you can read from the report, the manuscript has received favorable comments from all three reviewers. They also raise some issues that I ask you to address in a rebuttal and appropriate revision.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 6, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Xu, Shao and colleagues report a new Shigella flexneri mutant with deficiency in Hep synthesis of LPS. This mutant was capable of forming biofilm on abiotic surface and manifested extraordinary adhesiveness to host cells. They established a clear positive relationship between increased surface hydrophobicity and adhesiveness of Shigella flexneri. The article is well written and the structure of the article is consistent with the journal requirements. The data has been made available in accordance with PeerJ guidelines. All the figures are well presented.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This submission is within the scope of the journal, and the method in this paper is well presented and has potential merit in expanding to other field.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The work has been carefully done. And the interpretation is well balanced and supported by the data, and conclusions are valid.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall, this is a technically sound study and is written with clarity. I strongly support this manuscript to be published on Peerj without further revision. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Characterization of a biofilm-forming Shigella flexneri phenotype due to deficiency in Hep biosynthesis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2178v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 18, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors systematically characterized biofilm-forming Shigella flexneri phenotype by knock-out of wzy, waaL and rfaC genes in Hep biosynthesis. The authors firstly verified the genotypes and further used multiple assays to understand how the deficiency in biosynthesis affect the biofilm-forming phenotype. I think this study is well-performed with quality data.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors mainly looked into how LPS mutants behave in terms of bio-filming phenotype. The authors should provide more detailed info about the rationale that the key role of LPS biosynthesis related to bio-filming. Are wzy, waaL and rfaC genes most important for LPS biosynthesis? In Fig. 2A, the deletion of rfaC mainly positively contributed to biofilm formation, but not the other two genes. Are there any possible explanations regarding this as wzy and waaL are also involved in LPS biosynthesis. In Page 15, line 229, what is 'TTSS'?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Although this study suggests a relationship between increased surface hydrophobicity and adhesiveness of Shigella flexneri, it is still not clear enough what is the role of LPS involved in such invasiveness and virulence.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
It is well-known that LPS plays a key role in structural integrity of the bacteria and protects the membrane from certain kinds of chemical attack. The authors found rfaC-deleted strain showed different actin-based motility from other LPS-truncated strains. Based on this study, it looks inner core is even more important in adhesiveness and thus invasiveness for the bacteria compared to outer core. The authors should further clarify why <U+0394>rfaC mutant showed enhanced virulence in vitro, but is very poor to colonize in vivo. In addition, it is not very clear that what is the relationship between LPS and cell surface hydrophobicity. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Characterization of a biofilm-forming Shigella flexneri phenotype due to deficiency in Hep biosynthesis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2178v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
May 26, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Authors stuied biofilm forming potentials and pathological behaviors of various LPS-truncated Shigella flexneri strains, and found a anti-correlation between biofilm forming capacity of Shigella and the LPS chain length in general. The results are interesting. The manuscript is well written.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
All experiments were properly designed. Multiple techniques were utilized in this study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data presented in this manuscript is solid. All proper control experiments were performed.
Comments for the author
Minor issue: The detailed method for statistic used in this manuscript is missing. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "Characterization of a biofilm-forming Shigella flexneri phenotype due to deficiency in Hep biosynthesis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2178v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 5, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
