Review History for Diversity and distribution of extra-floral nectaries in the cerrado savanna vegetation of Brazil [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Diversity and distribution of extra-floral nectaries in the cerrado savanna vegetation of Brazil To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 31st, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 27th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on October 30th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 11th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Stuart Pimm
·
Nov 11, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Please make the entirely minor changes recommended by the reviews.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 30, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Stuart Pimm
·
Aug 27, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for sending us such an interesting paper. As you can see, both reviewers are strongly supportive our publishing your manuscript. The changes recommended are all minor.
label_author_1
Ted Schultz ·
Aug 27, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors start with an existing data set of 849 plant species at 367 Cerrado sites. They use other data sources to divide the plant species into two groups, those that possess extra-floral nectaries and those that do not. They use yet other data sources to examine correlations between the proportion of extra-floral-nectary-bearing plants, multiple environmental variables, soil type, and total plant species diversity at each site. They report a number of correlations, including an unexpected negative correlation between proportion of extra-floral-nectary-bearing plants and proximity to the equator. The paper is well-written, the goals and results are clearly stated, and, as far as I can tell, the analyses are well executed. For these reasons I recommend publication. The paper is of general interest for a number of reasons. The Brasilian Cerrado is an important biome deserving of increased study and extra-floral nectaries are important phenomena of broad general interest to ecologists and evolutionary biologists. The correlations revealed by the authors are not easy to interpret with reference to overly general hypotheses, but that is only to be expected from something as complex as the Cerrado, which is actually a mosaic of landscapes with varying geological histories. It's also to be expected from something as complex as extra-floral nectaries, which are the results of many separate convergent evolutionary histories. In spite of these complexities, a set of general evolutionary/ecological mechanisms presumably underlies the origin and maintenance of extrafloral nectaries in the Cerrado. This paper represents a step forward in identifying those mechanisms. A few minor edits: P. 4, line 61: Substitute "ask" for "asked." P. 4, line 65 and elsewhere: "i.e." should be followed by a comma P. 6, line 104: "The families with [the] most species with EFN [were] the . . ." P. 7, line 134: "Whilst the low species richness sites may have inflated proportion[s] of EFN . . ." P. 8, line 142: "Unfortunately, no data . . . [are] available . . ." P. 9, line 176: "No data [are] available . . ." Cite this review as
Schultz T ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Diversity and distribution of extra-floral nectaries in the cerrado savanna vegetation of Brazil (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.219v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 12, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This paper investigates the proportion of species bearing extra-floral nectaries in the cerrado of Brazil, and how this relates to potential environmental correlates. The paper was very well written and a joy to read with very few errors (see general comments to orders). It confirms current knowledge in terms of distribution of this trait and suggests further directions of research in relation to environmental factors and herbivory.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The location of the study is appropriate to the question, I don't think you could have picked a better study region. Further it is clear from the acknowledges and references that you have consulted leading taxonomist who have expert knowledge of the region and its flora and therefore the classification of the presence and absence of EFN is likely to be as good as it gets. I haven't used GLMs in my research but from the little I know the method seems appropriate to the questions being asked.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings and their interpretation seem to be correct. They back the conclusions of Moles et al. (2011a, b) relating to the distribution and its complexity, and provide a new insight into its relationship with other environmental factors associated with herbivory.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Minor corrections Remove the reference from the abstract and there seems to be a / after "0-57" in the abstract that needs deleting Methods - was it possible to classify all species as having or not having EFN, is there any character uncertainty? In the results lines 102-106 and 121-124 you mention numbers of species with EFN frequency of sites etc. It may be worth reiterating the total number of species in the flora. i.e. line 102 "A total of 98 tree and shrub species... to have EFN from are total of 367 species." or something similar. I realise you do give this figure in the methods but it is worth reiterating it for comparison with the figures you give in the results. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Diversity and distribution of extra-floral nectaries in the cerrado savanna vegetation of Brazil (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.219v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 31, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
