Review History for Proteomic indicators of oxidation and hydration state in colorectal cancer [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Proteomic indicators of oxidation and hydration state in colorectal cancer To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 14th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 25th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on June 19th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 20th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Jun 20, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Special thanks for addressing all critical points raised by both reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 19, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Apr 25, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As you can see from reviewers' comments, there are significant concerns related to your analysis. For example, it was indicated that the description of the methods in the manuscript does not provide enough information on how the chemical formulae for proteins in cancer patients and healthy volunteers had been obtained. It was also pointed out that there is a substantial gap between published data and data required for calculations, and that this gap is not bridged in your study, leaving the reader wondering where all these data came from. Please note that although one of the reviewers recommended rejection, I decided to give you a chance to revise the manuscript and to answer critical points raised by both reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The language is clear and professionally used. Introduction is related to presented Methods and Results, Discussion sections. Figures are high quality and data are represented clearly. Literature is missing regarding hydration and redox studies on many proteins using statistical thermodynamics. These proteins have been investigated enormously using statistical thermodynamics without depending only on empirical formula. The structure of the manuscript is well designed based on which studies were shown from literature but a great part of literature is missing. Therewith, hydration studies using statistical mechanics are lacking not only in refereces but also in introduction, methods, results and discussions.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Experimental design depends on existing data from few groups without considering their weaknesses. It is a study that is directly linked to mistakes or weaknesses in existing data from few groups. For a scientist, the worst is to depend on existing studies and then applying empirical hydration calculations using simple mathematics. These proteins could be investigated independently from existing data in the literature shown by the author. One needs to employ statistical thermodynamics with dynamics in water for such purposes. The Zc numbers can be then predicted without depending on initial data from other groups. Therefore, I suggest a statistical mechnaics and then quantum mechanics studies for more advanced Zc numbers. The quantum calculations can be performed on smaller moities from molecular dynamics simulations without depending on existing data. Existing methods are too weak in their current forms. These methods also open the door for pandora given that statistics affected also previous studies, which were taken as data in this work to produce some related and relative data without dynamics and solvent effects with dynamics.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are valid when we accept the methods. However, I have huge issues in accepting the methods part as chemical thermodynamics.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Please revise your studies using statistical mechanics and quantum mechanics and then compare to existing data rather than using the literature as input data. Chemical Thermodynamics is more complicated. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Proteomic indicators of oxidation and hydration state in colorectal cancer (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2238v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The main hypothesis of the present work states that the local hypoxia and the hydration level in a tumor may affect the gene expression and protein composition of the cancerous cells. In order to characterize local parameters the author used indirect unconventional method of calculation the average carbon oxidation level and the water content per residue based exclusively on the chemical formulae of proteins synthesized in cancerous cells or adjacent bacteria. This method had been originally developed as a tool in Geobiology to characterize the average carbon oxidation level in remnants of organic matter in the lithosphere. The author previously showed that this approach can be expanded to the field of biology and medicine. (Dick, J. M. (2014). Average oxidation state of carbon in proteins. Journal of the Royal Society Interface, 11:20131095. DOI 10.1098/rsif.2013.1095.) However, in that paper the author did not prove that this expression can be equally applied to large proteins found in living cells. There are only two self-references on this paper found by Google Scholar that indicates that this method of calculation of the average carbon oxidation in proteins had not been accepted and independently verified by other investigators. It is highly questionable that the approach, which is valid for simple organic molecules, can be applied to large complex molecules of proteins in the living cell. The paper is well-written, although biologists and biochemists may find the language to be too complex. Introduction gives comprehensive background and provides detailed considerations of the problem in question. Throughout the manuscript the author gives proper citations relevant to the study. Figures are of good quality and correctly illustrate the main results obtained by the author.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This study is a pure theoretical one and relies exclusively on experimental data that the author found in the published literature. However, the description of the methods in the manuscript does not provide enough information on how the chemical formulae for proteins in cancer patients and healthy volunteers had been obtained. For example, the data published on the composition of colon bacteria in health and disease list only the relative change of bacteria genera present in the colon. There is no information on the particular proteins expressed in each bacterial species, thus there is no way to know their chemical formulae, which are required for calculations. The use of overall genome data for bacteria present in the colon “without any weighting for transcript or protein abundance in organisms, and excluding any post-translational modifications” indicates that the author could not use formulae for these proteins to calculate the average carbon oxidation according to his expression (1). The manuscript does not contain any description of the methods used to generate Figures 4 and 5. Namely, the source of oxygen fugacity (fO2) and water activity (aH2O) used to construct diagrams on Figure 4 is not indicated in the manuscript. This omission makes the section on the thermodynamic stability of bacterial proteins and the main conclusion of the manuscript rather questionable.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Proteomic indicators of oxidation and hydration state in colorectal cancer (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2238v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 14, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
