Review History for Percentile curves for skinfold thickness for Canadian children and youth [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Percentile curves for skinfold thickness for Canadian children and youth To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 17th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 15th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on June 21st, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 22nd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Laura Guidetti
·
Jun 22, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been improved following the reviewers suggestions.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 21, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Laura Guidetti
·
Jun 15, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
To improve the paper please follow the suggestions of both reviewers.
label_author_1
Jonathan Wells ·
Jun 10, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a well presented paper on an important topic, and I have no major concerns with the basic reporting.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design regarding the raw data collection, and the statistical modelling, are all satisfactory. I have greater reservations over the conversion of the raw skinfold data to percentage fat, as several publications have demonstrated that the Slaughter equations have substantial bias (eg Wells et al., AJCN 1999; 69(5):904-12). Furthermore, there are now reference data for body fat measured directly by criterion methods (eg Wells et al., AJCN 2012; 96(6):1316-26).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
All the findings relating to the skinfolds themselves appear valid. Again, however, I have reservations about presenting predictions of body fat using equations already considered to be biased.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In general this is an excellent paper, providing new and robust skinfold thickness reference data for the Canadian population over the majority of the paediatric age range. I am well aware that skinfolds are often converted into percentage fat data, using published equations. This is a problematic approach, as no skinfold equation has yet been published that transfers successfully across populations. Inevitably, the product of these equations is bias, and this bias is likely to differ between populations. Therefore, although this approach might appear to enable comparison of adiposity across populations, this approach is to my mind flawed. Furthermore, the authors make no reference to published data on fat mass, or even fat mass index, using criterion methods such as isotope dilution, the four component model, DXA etc (eg Wells et al,. AJCN 2012). Given these much more robust data on tissue masses, predictions based on skinfold measurements do not contribute comparable objective data. My preference would be that these body fat predictions are dropped from the manuscript, because it is very valuable for clinicians to rank adiposity using the raw skinfold data anyway. For a discussion of the limitations of using prediction equations, see Wells and Fewtrell, Arch Dis Child 2006; 91(7):612-7. It would also be helpful for the authors to add a qualification that skinfold thicknesses do not assess internal visceral adiposity, which has the strongest association with ill-health. In general, there are fairly good correlations between skinfold thicknesses and internal adiposity, nevertheless this limitation should be acknowledged and discussed. Cite this review as
Wells J ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Percentile curves for skinfold thickness for Canadian children and youth (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2247v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 15, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This study is about a topic with important practical implications. Although skinfold thickness is used widely as a proxy of body fat, very few data exist on large populations. The findings of this study are expected to help health-related practitioners to evaluate body fat in children. Based on the importance of this study I recommend it for publication with minor corrections. 1) The title does not reflect accurately the content. Either delete the distinction in peripheral and truncal from the title or add more information in the Introduction and Discussion about this distinction. 2) l.31: girls in girls: curves in girls 3) Intoduction: Why the particular five skinfolds have been chosen? (e.g. popularity, Eurofit…) 4) Basic details are needed in the Methods: how age, weight and height were assessed?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Percentile curves for skinfold thickness for Canadian children and youth (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2247v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 17, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
