Review History for Neural and endocranial anatomy of Triassic phytosaurian reptiles and convergence with fossil and modern crocodylians [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Neural and endocranial anatomy of Triassic phytosaurian reptiles and convergence with fossil and modern crocodylians To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 30th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 14th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on June 21st, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 22nd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jesús Marugán-Lobón
·
Jun 22, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been corrected taking into account the important suggestions made by both reviewers. It is a great quality study and perfectly suitable for PeerJ. *please check for typos in detal when receiving the proofs, I came across (and reported) two, at lines 182 and 340, "glossopharyngeal" and "It is therefore possible"
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 21, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jesús Marugán-Lobón
·
Jun 14, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers have stressed the good quality of this study and encouraged its publication. However, they have also made very important remarks that need to be taken into full consideration before we consider its publication. Please also note the 2 attachments from the reviewers.
label_author_1
Jonathan Tennant ·
Jun 6, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Figures The figures are well annotated, numerous, and informative. I strongly recommend that these be used in a press release for this paper, seeing as it pushes our boundary about what we know about phytosaurs in an exciting way. Data See comments below in main response file. The reporting for this manuscript is to a very high scientific standard in all other aspects.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The study presents new research, and is well within the scope of PeerJ. The research question is well-defined, but could do with a bit more information on the scope and importance of the study. The technical standard of work performed is very high. If the scans are deposited in a more public repository, then this study should be broadly replicable (this is somewhat unclear at the present, see comments below). The title might also be slightly misleading, as it refers to Crocodylia while the study is broader by investigating Crocodyliformes.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data collected in this study is of high quality. No statistical tests were performed. The conclusions are broadly supported by the data, but a couple of caveats/limitations could be added for increased context.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Please note that a full review is provided in the attachment file. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Tennant JP ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Neural and endocranial anatomy of Triassic phytosaurian reptiles and convergence with fossil and modern crocodylians (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2251v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Ryan Ridgely ·
Jun 13, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript's introduction is extremely well done, which made this paper much easier to review. Figures and CT data processing are exceptional, as expected from these authors. The raw CT data do need to be made available online, if possible.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This work is descriptive anatomy from historical biology. As such, it meets all the standards for reporting in this discipline to a very high degree.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Most of the findings are solid, however, I question some anatomical interpretations from the CT data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Excellent contribution that fills a large gap in our understanding in phytosaur evolution. Lines 88-89: Might be worth mentioning that the deformation is is almost entirely plastic, with no apparent brittle deformation. Lines 106-108: Which tool in Avizo was used? Technically, the models were scaled up dorsoventrally. “Non-uniformly” adds confusion. Line 127: Confusing wording. Perhaps: “Fossae for olfactory bulbs were preserved”? Line 158: A large "metotic fissure" can be seen in the CT data for both taxa housing CN IX-XI. This can also be seen on Parasuchus hislopi (ISI R44) in Chatterjee 1978. Line 163-164: Going through the data, I was able to find only a single exit for CN XII. The more rostral of the two foramina the authors posit for XII is “blind” in both taxa, and thus likely corresponds to the “diverticulum of the longitudinal sinus” of Hopson, 1979. See also Witmer & Ridgely 2008, 2009. Line 184: One of these fenestrae is an artifact of the data or the specimen. Line 190-193: This is confusing, as it reads as if the neurovascular canal transmits a pneumatic cavity. Line 197-198: Can the olfactory region and choana be visualized in the 3D reconstructions? Line 200: Is there a single foramina in the ectopterygoid? In other words, could it be transmitting a neurovascular structure? Lines 203-211: This structure could be interpreted as paratympanic, however there is no connection to the middle ear. This structure *is* continuous with the endocranium, and its “branches” exit laterally into the dorsal temporal fossae, and caudally onto the occiput. As such, this structure is more compatible with being interpreted as a combination of endocranium and dural venous sinuses (Witmer et al, 2008) Lines 220-221: Versus what? Most vertebrates have a serially arranged brain. Lines: 236-237: The retrodeformation exercise for Parasuchus results in a striking resemblance to P. hislopi in Chatterjee 1978. As such, I’d suggest using this reconstruction in Figure 7 as well as rotating P. hislopi to match. Chatterjee had no orientation provided in 1978, but the olfactory tracts should be roughly horizontal. Line 243-246: A great strength of this paper is that it shows that a pineal or epiphysis *may* have been “elaborated” through phytosaur evolution towards the crown. It’s a difficult question, as the extant phylogenetic bracket fails us. That said, we don’t know when the pineal was lost in archosaur evolution towards crocs. Line 287-290: Could dorsoventral crushing affect the interpretation of the basal morphology? In other words, would the retrodeformed models change the story? Line 294-296: Last sentence of this paragraph is extraneous and not needed. Figs 2 & 3: Please consider revisiting the segmentation. I’ve gone through the data briefly, and provided an image of alternative interpretations of several structures at the caudal end of both endocasts. Figure 4 & 5: Can connections (an ostium?) be seen/made between the airway, premax sinus, and antorbital cavity? Can the olfactory region be visualized? In Fig. 5b, the premax sinus is also labeled as airway. Figure 6: Can the dorsal views of the labyrinths be oriented such that they are “90 degrees”, as it is, they appear to be rotated 45 degrees, which makes it difficult to compare the orientation of the lateral canal relative to other taxa. Figure 7: Fantastic! Only suggestion is to consider the retrodeformed models, and rotate P. hislopi clockwise such that the olfactory tract is horizontal. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Ridgely R ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Neural and endocranial anatomy of Triassic phytosaurian reptiles and convergence with fossil and modern crocodylians (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2251v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 30, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
