Review History for Whole genome phylogeny for 21 Drosophila species using predicted 2b-RAD fragments [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Whole genome phylogeny for 21 Drosophila species using predicted 2b-RAD fragments To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 26th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 18th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on November 27th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 28th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Keith Crandall
·
Nov 28, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for effectively revising your manuscript to accommodate the reviewers' concerns. I feel the paper is now ready for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 27, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Keith Crandall
·
Oct 18, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I was able to get three reviews of your paper by area experts and they unanimously recommend publication with minor revisions. All have provided some minor comments to attend to below. Please address these and we'll be good. Thanks for submiting to PeerJ!
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 18, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article was, for the most part, well written and clear. The authors did a nice job of introducing the various "subgenomic" approaches that are being considered. I would have liked to see more discussion of the literature concerning the relationships of the species in the study, particularly within the subgenus Sophophora. Several key studies are not cited (Remsen and O'Grady 2002; O'Grady and Kidwell, 2002; Kopp and True, 2002. Minor edits: italics for all genera (Drosophila), species groups and subgroups.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The paper clearly fits with the scope of the journal and the methods are adequate. Since many phylogenetic studies use sequence data, rather than distance data, and much more sophisticated algorithms than Phylip, it would be nice to see a comparison of how the proposed distance method performs side-by-side with a Bayesian or ML analysis of the underlying sequences. More discussion of how the homology assessments were made is also necessary.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The phylogeny looks reasonable and is concordant with the tree you get using other methods with fewer data. The authors ran bootstrap analyses but do not talk about these results specifically in the text. This would be helpful in the discussion of the rhopaloa-elegans-ficusphila relationship, one of the disagreement points between previous work and the least well supported lineage in the current tree. I also found all the discussion of subclade of this versus subclade of that confusing. Why not just use the term clade and mention the different placement (along with support values)? Perhaps an inset showing some of the major alternative placements on your figure would be helpful for the discussion.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Whole genome phylogeny for 21 Drosophila species using predicted 2b-RAD fragments (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.226v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 7, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Seetharam & Stuart propose a method for phylogeny reconstruction from whole genomes by sequencing restriction fragments of length 21--33 bp. They demonstrate the feasibility of their method by simulating its application to 21 Drosophila genomes. - The Title promises a phylogeny reconstruction method, but the paper delivers the simulation of such a method. Please clarify. - End of Abstract. "improve studies of comparative genomics and the building of accurate phylogenetic trees.'' No improvement over existing methods is shown. - Introduction. Reference the co-phylog method mentioned in the Discussion. - End of first para. Haubold & Pfaffelhuber (2012) computed a tree of the same 21 Drosophila genomes using the alignment-free method of Domazet-Loso & Haubold (2009). - L. 41: "widely used to study population genetics''. References missing.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Section 2.2: Software mentioned here ought to be made available. Section 2.2: "removing all closely related fragments''. How were these defined and removed?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
- The validity of the method ought to be demonstrated by an actual restriction digest for one pair of the genomes investigated. - Section 3.2: Why are there frequencies > 1 in Table 2? This table ought to report "Expected Count'' conditional on GC content. For AlfI & D. ana this is 0.43^4 * (1-0.43) * 231 * 10^6 = 4.5 * 10^6, which is an order of magnitude larger than the actual result of 34,805. Please comment. - Section 3.4: How are these matches with 6 mismatches computed? - Section 3.4: What is the memory and time requirement of the proposed distance computation method? - Section 3.4: Annotate tree with bootstrap-like values that indicate how many out of the 16 enzymes support a given clade. - Section 3.4: Show tree for single enzyme with branch lengths. - L. 170: Co-phylog is an alignment-free method.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Whole genome phylogeny for 21 Drosophila species using predicted 2b-RAD fragments (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.226v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Rob Desalle ·
Sep 26, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Interesting paper. The concept of using long sequences as characters in phylogenetics Is well known. Using REs to do phylogeny is also classic. Longer sequences have more character states so they are less prone to homoplasy. Hence there is soundness to thinking this approach would be precise. The only problem I have with the paper is that it uses only a phenetic approach to tree building. With more attention to detail a character state matrix could also be constructed and parsimony and simple likelihood models could be applied. This would require that exact homology of fragments and sites be established. It would also result in more data. Sites would be characters not fragments. To have a fragment you need two sites. There is a lot of literature on this kind of analysis. Another advantage of treating things like characters is that Dollo parsimony can be used.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
See above.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Highly valid if you like distance approaches.
Comments for the author
Would it be possible in the light of thoroughness to get a character matrix and analyze that? You should have that info. If a site exists in an exon or in a five or three prime region you can establish homology fairly easily. Synteny for others would do the trick. Then analyze as characters. Cite this review as
Desalle R ( 2013 ) Peer Review #3 of "Whole genome phylogeny for 21 Drosophila species using predicted 2b-RAD fragments (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.226v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 26, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
