Review History for The antioxidative properties of S-allyl cysteine not only influence somatic cells but also improve early embryo cleavage in pigs [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The antioxidative properties of S-allyl cysteine not only influence somatic cells but also improve early embryo cleavage in pigs To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 8th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 3rd, 2016. The first revision was submitted on June 29th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 3rd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Xiang-Jiao Yang
·
Jul 3, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for making the revision.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 29, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Xiang-Jiao Yang
·
Jun 3, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please address the issues raised by the two reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 2, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is simple and clear.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results are clear and well supported.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors demonstrated that SAC is very effective in reducing ROS levels in porcine oocytes during and after their maturation in vitro, and there is a higher proportion of early cleaving embryos when the culture medium was supplemented with SAC. While with these positive effects, addition of SAC didn’t affect the meiotic process and cumulus expansion, implicating the potential of adopting SAC as a new anti-oxidant additive for in vitro culturing of oocytes. The experimental designs are sound and the conclusions that SAC reduces ROS levels in maturing oocytes and increases early embryo cleavage rate are well supported. However, the authors failed to make a direct comparison between SAC and other known anti-oxidants such as cysteine to compare their abilities in reducing ROS, which could make the specific role of SAC stand out of other anti-oxidants. Although from previous studies it is true that in somatic cells SAC is better than cysteine in reducing ROS. Other points: -The title may be changed to more accurately reflect the conclusion that SAC (instead of using “sulfur garlic”) could reduce ROS levels and increase early embryo cleavage (instead of using the statement “oocyte viability”). -The authors only recorded early embryo cleavages 22 hours after parthenogenic activation, and claimed SAC is good for oocyte viability. Although increased viability could be achieved through reducing oxidative stress in oocytes, the authors didn’t check the viability itself directly. -The experiments and conclusions are simple and clear, but the discussion part is too long and a lot of the texts is not relevant to authors’ main conclusion. For example, for the discussion of ROS balance is important for oocytes, this is well known and not necessary to discussed too much. -Line 52, IVF abbreviation better explained when first used. -Line 93 and 105, the texts are redundant. -Line 177, itclics -Line 210, “the effects of SAC are evidently stronger…. This could also have been the case in our study, in which we did not compare the effects of SAC with the effects of cysteine and …”. Here without actual data, it is not able to conclude “this could also have been the case in our study”. The effects of SAC on oocytes worth further study. The paper could be accepted after revision, providing they modify the texts and make it clearer and more precise, and tone down some of the statements. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The antioxidative properties of S-allyl cysteine not only influence somatic cells but also improve early embryo cleavage in pigs (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2280v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Linya You ·
Jun 2, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors demonstrated clearly how their work fits into current issues present in oocyte and zygote culture system.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is clearly and supports the two aims of the study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors did a lot of work. Each figure panel has observed more than 100 cells, and the experiments were repeated four times. These make the conclusions more powerful.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this study, the authors did a nice job on evaluating SAC as an antioxidant reagent on maturing oocytes. SAC is able to reduce ROS level in maturing oocytes while has no disruption of meiotic maturation. Moreover, the quality of in vitro matured oocytes is improved with SAC treatment. This study demonstrates a potential application of SAC in IVF. Minor points 1. In Figures 1-3, statistically significant differences are indicated by different superscripts. The authors should indicate what those superscripts represent. For example, a, p<0.05; b, p<0.01. 2. All the data are shown as mean±SEM, but some of the panels did not show SEM. They are Figure 1A, and Figure 3. 3. For the statistical analysis, the author indicated significant differences were determined using the ANOVA test. Which type of ANOVA was used? 4. In Figure 1A, what are the meanings of b1A1ß1, b2B2a2? 5. For experimental design, why choosing 24 and 48 hrs for oocytes and 22 hrs for zygotes? 6. In Figure 2, SAC treatment seems to have stronger effect of reducing ROS level on oocytes than on zygotes. What might be the reason? 7. For ROS level, what is the percentage of ROS usually found in those oocytes and zygotes without treatment of SAC? Is it reaching a level that is harmful? 8. line 198, “in vivo” should be “in vitro”? 9. line 201, SAC treatment results in more cleaving embryos in oocytes maturing. What is the safe yet efficient proportion of cleaving embryos? Cite this review as
You L ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "The antioxidative properties of S-allyl cysteine not only influence somatic cells but also improve early embryo cleavage in pigs (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2280v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 8, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
