Review History for Will 1,2-dihydro-1,2-azaborine-based drugs resist metabolism by cytochrome P450 compound I? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Will 1,2-dihydro-1,2-azaborine-based drugs resist metabolism by cytochrome P450 compound I? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 18th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 1st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on July 6th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 6th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Paul Tulkens
·
Jul 6, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You have taken all remarks in due consideration and the paper is accordingly improved.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 6, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Paul Tulkens
·
Jul 1, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
In addition to the reviewers, I have carefully read the paper myself. Please respond to the comments in a revised version and letter of rebuttal.
label_author_1
Jeremy Harvey ·
Jun 20, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper describes its results with sufficient background, with good figures. From what I can tell, appropriate raw data for this field has been provided. From what I can tell also, the paper uses one of the templates. I think one area that could be improved is about the reaction mechanism. The author models reaction of a Compound I model (quartet or doublet) with the aza,bora-benzene species. He models steps that involve, broadly, addition of the Compound I oxygen to one of the C atoms, or the B or N. Some of these steps, however, lead to products (intermediates) that are not just addition products. E.g. species D and F in Fig. 2 involve bonding to both B and N. Species A in Fig. 3 involves insertion into the C-B bond. It would really be helpful to clarify that such species are formed in a single step from Cpd I - and to explain which calculations show this to be so.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The calculations reported appear to meet these criteria. The author reports slight difficulties reproducing exactly some results for benzene. I think the different basis set and the use of dispersion correction may account for this, so I'm not unduly alarmed by this.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The main finding, that these species are expected to be much more reactive than normal aromatic compounds, is well established by the work. No problem here.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Some general comments: Line 17, “the very sluggish C4-position”. I don’t think a position can be called sluggish. I suggest using the more precise “less reactive”. Line 72, Computational details: it would be good to state explicitly that the B3LYP-D3 corrections were computed as single-point corrections at B3LYP structures (if that is what was done). Also, it would be good to say exactly which version of –D3 was used. Typo, line 97-98: “the quartet state has the same energetic barrier AS the doublet state” Line 123, “With a parallel orientation, reaction is slow…” – this should really be stated as a hypothetical, maybe “With a parallel orientation, reaction would be slow…” or “With a parallel orientation, reaction is predicted to be slow…”. Line 165, “was found to be thermodynamically stable”. I am not sure this wording is sensible. I think the author means that it sits in a local minimum on the potential energy surface. In this particular case, I don’t think most people would call this species “thermodynamically stable”. Cite this review as
Harvey J ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Will 1,2-dihydro-1,2-azaborine-based drugs resist metabolism by cytochrome P450 compound I? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2299v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Raphaël Frédérick ·
Jul 1, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In my opinion the present paper is clearly written and is conform with the PeerJ policies
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Although I am not sure the present study which is only based on theoretical experiments provides enough information to sustain the conclusions drawn by the author, the research question remain sound and is clearly defined.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The methodology used is acceptable and the conclusions are appropriately stated.
Cite this review as
Frédérick R ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Will 1,2-dihydro-1,2-azaborine-based drugs resist metabolism by cytochrome P450 compound I? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2299v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 18, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
