Review History for Minimum information about tolerogenic antigen-presenting cells (MITAP): a first step towards reproducibility and standardisation of cellular therapies [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Minimum information about tolerogenic antigen-presenting cells (MITAP): a first step towards reproducibility and standardisation of cellular therapies To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 16th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 6th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.1 (accepted)
Jeffrey Bluestone
·
Jul 6, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The paper was deemed important and laying the groundwork to conduct and interpret cell based studies in this area.
label_author_1
Kristin Tarbell ·
Jul 5, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors set up a standardized reporting method, and then test concordance on terms and prior literature for level of information corresponding to this new reporting method.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Setting up these standards for reporting methods for producing tolerogenic APCs will improve future efforts in this area. The checklist and MITAP document are clear and should be easy to follow and implement when reporting future studies. Cite this review as
Tarbell K ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Minimum information about tolerogenic antigen-presenting cells (MITAP): a first step towards reproducibility and standardisation of cellular therapies (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2300v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 6, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a report by a group of investigators who are committed to the study of tolerogenic Antigen-Presenting-Cells (tolAPCs). This is a timely paper as early studies indicate their potential value in the treatment of autoimmune diseases and the prevention of transplant rejection. This group decided to get together to generate a minimum information model for tolAPC called MITAP with the goal of providing a reporting framework that will allow a comparison of the various batches of tolAPCS used in the different studies.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
There is no primary experimental research in this manuscript. But the authors have brainstormed to come up with a set of recommendations to allow a more accurate reporting of experiments using tolAPCs. The recommendations are well choosen allowing an accurate description of the cellular preparation and experimental protocol without imposing the use of a specific platform.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The intent is of great value as this initiative will permit the community to better assess the data generated with tolAPCs. This is particularly important as these studies will in many cases be performed in patients at high costs. Thus, a detailed and accurate report of the overall trial is a welcome endeavor. The manuscript is well written. The aspects that are considered and discussed are appropriate. The authors did not fall into the trap that a single platform should be used. Rather they propose a framework that will permit a detailed comparison of the used platforms. Hopefully, it will permit them to identify which platform is the most efficinet to induce tolerance mechanisms.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I strongly support the publication of this manuscript in PeerJ or elsewhere. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Minimum information about tolerogenic antigen-presenting cells (MITAP): a first step towards reproducibility and standardisation of cellular therapies (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2300v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 16, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
