Review History for Imbalance between subsets of CD8+ peripheral blood T cells in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Imbalance between subsets of CD8 + peripheral blood T cells in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 27th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 24th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on June 10th, 2016 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 7th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dunja Bruder
·
Jul 7, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
At the level of proof check I kindly ask you to include the following correction: line 251 - 253: "...much effort is needed to investigate the net changes in both local and systemic." should be rephrased to: "...much effort is needed to investigate the net changes in both local and systemic compartments.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 27, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors answered most qustions and remarks placed in the first review process which improved the overall impression of the manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The reasoning for the alpha7+CD8+ T cell analysis is explained better now. The antibody clones have been stated. The way of live/dead cell discrimination has been described better in the material and methods section and isotype controls for the cytokine staining were added.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I asked for the statement of the standard deviations of the percentages of the different T cell subsets in Figure 4 such that in the graphic itself not only the mean value for each T cell subset in the SCOPD, AECOPD and HN group is shown, but also the accoriding standard deviation for each cell subset in a donor groups. These SD values have been actually already calculated by the authors in the "raw data" pdf file. As the percentages given in figure 4 were normalized to sum up to 100% the SD values have to be scaled accordingly. Another way would be to add the according coefficients of variance (CVs) to the figure. This would improve the figure pretty much as it is of importace for the reader to be able to judge the range of varation in the FACS percentages.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Minor corrections: I still do not understand the rephrased wording in line 251 - 253: "...much effort is needed to investigate the net changes in both local and systemic." In my opinion this should be rephrased to: "...much effort is needed to investigate the net changes in both local and systemic compartments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Imbalance between subsets of CD8+ peripheral blood T cells in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2301v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 10, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dunja Bruder
·
May 24, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
While both reviewers find your work of interest, they have raised points that need to be addressed by a major revision. We therefore invite you to revise and resubmit your manuscript, taking into account the points raised.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
May 12, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors provide basic description of the CD8+ T cell composition in COPD patients and healthy controls. Using T cell signature surface markers and signature cytokine production following mitogenic stimulation in vitro the authors discriminate canonical T cell subsets in peripheral blood. This contributes to the body of knowledge in COPD research. The manuscript is generally well written and comprehensible. The figures comprise both exemplary flow cytometric dot plots as well as clear statistical summary plots. Apparently, the data shown here in the manuscript are derived from the same sample set published earlier (PubMed PMID: 25375131) dealing with the in depth analysis of the CD4+ T cell compartment in COPD patients. This fact should be at least clearly stated in the introduction as this information allows the reader to draw deeper conclusions on the CD8+ T cell data presented in this manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The studied patient cohort seems well controlled and is age-matched. The reasoning behind analyzing CD8+alpha7+ T cells should be stated more clearly in the introduction. Especially since there is only a minor population of alpha7+CD8+ T cells and the authors couldn’t detect any significant differences in this cell population between the donor groups. Moreover, the alpha7+ population is disregarded in the summary figure 4. Thus, it only makes sense to show the results for the alpha7 marker if there is a clearly stated expectation for it in context of COPD. The antibody clones used should be stated in the flow cytometric methods part. Were dead cells excluded from the analysis by means of a fixable live/dead marker after PMA/ionomycin stimulation? This is important as in vitro T cell stimulation with PMA/ionomycin induces lots of apoptotic cells not producing any cytokines and thereby masking/reducing the percentage of cytokine-positive cells. This should be mentioned in the material and methods section. Why was CD25 marker used (according to material and methods section) but neither used in the gating strategy nor shown in the data analysis? Analysis of intracellular cytokines would contribute from showing isotype controls or at least fluorescence-minus-one controls.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
In figure 4 the authors summarize their flow cytometric analysis by showing the average composition of the peripheral CD8+ T cell pool. However, the figure ignores the presence of naïve CD8+ T cells not being Foxp3+ nor producing any cytokines at all. The presentation of figure 4 would become more conclusive if the true composition of the entire peripheral CD8+ T cell pool would be presented with the CD8+ T cells being Foxp3-IFN<U+F067>-IL10-IL4-IL17- termed as “miscellaneous” or "naive" CD8+ T cells. Of course, it is possible that due to donor variations the total sum may then exceed or undercut 100 %. Therefore, the standard deviations of the averaged subset percentages should be stated in the graph as well. The data on the CD8+ T cell pool in COPD patients should be discussed in context of the author's findings regarding their data on their previous reports of the CD4+ compartment. This would contribute to the overall interpretation of the true role of the CD8+ compartment in COPD.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Further text related issues: Lines 160 – 163: This is an over-interpretation Lines 192 – 193: Sentence should be rephrased to: In conflict with published findings (Freeman et al. 2015), the percentage of peripheral CD8+ T cells was elevated in AECOPD but not in SCOPD patients. Lines 193 – 194: Sentence should be rephrased to: Combined with previous findings that the percentage of sputum CD8+ T lymphocytes was significantly increased at the onset of exacerbations (Makris et al. 2008), we speculate that the increased frequency of CD8+ T cells is limited to the lungs, whereas the expanded CD8+ T lymphocyte population spreads throughout the body during an acute exacerbation. Lines 199 – 204: Remove semicolon and change beginning of next sentence : ….compared with the stable state (Markis et al. 2008). Another study however reported… Lines 223 – 226: Sentence should be rephrased to: Consistently, the concentration of IL-10 was reported to be reduced in the sputum of COPD patients… Lines 237 – 239: Rephrasing needed: “…CD8+ Tregs are in a similar situation…” This sounds inaccurate. Lines: 251 - 253: This is not a valid sentence: "....research is needed on changes of bith local and systemic. " Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Imbalance between subsets of CD8+ peripheral blood T cells in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2301v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
May 14, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_3
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No comments
Comments for the author
The description concerning the analysis of different CD8+T cells subsets in COPD patients is interesting. However, the authors should address the following questions to improve the manuscript. 1) Authors have described that the demographic details of COPD and NC could be referred to Zhang MQ, 2014. However, I suggest to re-include the table again in this manuscript with an additional detail on the GOLD stages for COPD patients. 2) Although the authors have shown the mean values, the statistical significance by p value is always indicated as p<0.05 throughout the manuscript. Hence, inclusion of respective and specific p values in all the figures, could be more helpful for the readers to understand the depth of significant differences at first glance. 3) Also, I suggest that author should also perform correlation analysis between the subsets of CD8+T cells and age of COPD patients, and the GOLD stages of COPD patients. This analysis will provide with more informative details, if these subsets imbalance is particularly and significantly restricted to the age or certain stage of COPD. 4) The table shows the recruitment of more men COPD patients than women patients and since statistical analysis is not possible to stratify men and women because of just 2 women healthy donor, I suggest to plot an additional graphs by removing all the women from the group to show if the imbalanced effects still exist and significant and is not influenced by minority of women community in the study. Based on the result obtained, authors could discuss little bit more on both introduction and discussion concerning pathogenesis of COPD in men. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Imbalance between subsets of CD8+ peripheral blood T cells in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2301v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 27, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
