Review History for You can hide but you can’t run: apparent competition, predator responses and the decline of Arctic ground squirrels in boreal forests of the southwest Yukon [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History You can hide but you can’t run: apparent competition, predator responses and the decline of Arctic ground squirrels in boreal forests of the southwest Yukon To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 2nd, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 20th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on June 6th, 2016 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 7th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Leon Higley
·
Jul 7, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I very much appreciate your revisions and the detailed comments you offered in your rebuttal letter. I suspect I'll be using this paper in my ecology teaching!
label_author_1
Gary Torrisi ·
Jul 2, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Upon completion of the second review process, I find that the the authors have made the necessary corrections and additions that have strengthened this manuscript. Notably, the elimination of indirect mutualism and the addition of clarification in the introduction and discussion sections. Furthermore, citations in the body of the manuscript and additional references were noted. Line 388 (reference section) please add the year. Line 123 - We... through line 125 requires rewrite
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I found this investigation to be interesting and recognize areas of potential research related to this work that may add to the understanding of proximate cause and possible stochastic influence upon populations including Type II and Type III results. Cite this review as
Torrisi G ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "You can hide but you can’t run: apparent competition, predator responses and the decline of Arctic ground squirrels in boreal forests of the southwest Yukon (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2303v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 6, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Leon Higley
·
May 20, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers had positive comments on the manuscript, and I don't have any reservations about it's ultimate acceptability. There are some minor points identified that you may wish to address, but the more substantive issues are those from reviewer 2. This reviewer questions whether or not the data are sufficient to justify characterization of the interactions as apparent mutualism. From these comments I understand that a more definitive understanding of the mechanism associated with synchrony requires exclusion experiments. Would you please consider these comments, especially the argument that you should narrow the focus regarding mutualism. If you disagree with this reviewer, I think it is important for you to anticipate this point from readers in revising your text, as well as in your rebuttal argumentation. These points notwithstanding, I enjoyed your paper and I think it will offer a great example of predator-prey interactions.
label_author_2
Gary Torrisi ·
May 8, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Manuscript: RI-2016:04:10438:0:1:REVIEW Title: You can hide but you can’t run: apparent competition, predator responses and the decline of Arctic ground squirrels in the boreal forest of the southwest Yukon Authors: Werner, Gillis, Boonstra, and Krebs Reviewer: Gary J. Torrisi Basic Reporting: This paper looks at the reason(s) behind population collapse of a sympatric population of hares and Arctic ground squirrels. The authors propose that predation is the proximate cause of ground squirrel extinctions. This paper offers an ample introduction supplemented with appropriate background information and supportive references. Several biological concepts were introduced and often explained for the reader to follow. I would suggest that “predator pit” be explained briefly for clarity. This paper meets the criteria for “stand alone” reporting and contributes to the knowledge in this field of study. A relatively clean manuscript with little in the way of rewrite is needed. I suggest: In the Introduction, place a period at the end of first paragraph on page 7. In the Results section, rewrite the last paragraph sentence that begins with “Be it noted…” In the Reference pages, there are 10 citations in the body of the manuscript with no reference listed. There are two references in the list but I was unable to locate citations in the body of the manuscript (Efford, et al., 2009; Rexstad and Burnham, 1991).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experimental Design: Twenty five years of work has been expressed in this paper. Certainly reproducible by another researcher, however, I don’t have 25 years to do so. Sound methods employed. The authors mention “hare cycle” and I would like to see it expressed in terms of a reasonable time frame relative to the 25 year overall period of research time. Methods, page 9, spell out KY to Kentucky to keep it uniform throughout the paper.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Validity of the Findings: It is not clear to me if Peer J or the authors were to have supplied the raw data for review. However, I would have liked to have seen the results from GPC and Chitty side by side over the years. It brings to question, would it have been appropriate to have moved the trapping and recapture around the area tested? Would this have influenced your results? Just thinking out loud. Final thought: would it be correct to surmise a Type III influence followed by a Type II collapse years later where the Type III effect ultimately led to a Type II extinction event? Overall – well written
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
As I read your work over and over I couldn't help but think that this paper would serve as a classroom lesson introducing a number of biological concepts for discussion and study. A wonderful teaching tool for new biology students with limited backgrounds and knowledge. Gary Cite this review as
Torrisi G ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "You can hide but you can’t run: apparent competition, predator responses and the decline of Arctic ground squirrels in boreal forests of the southwest Yukon (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2303v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
May 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This is a very interesting paper documenting some unusual changes in dynamics of two synchronously cycling rodents that share a predator. This is one of the classic datasets in Ecology, and it's really exciting to see it continue. The article generally conforms to PeerJ standards, although there are a number of specific clarity or technical problems (see below).
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The primary criticism I have is with setting this up as a test or evidence of apparent mutualism. Although those could be the reason for synchronous fluctuations, the definitions of those terms require exclusion experiments to identify the type of mechanism. Simply observing a correlation between the two species over time is not a test of apparent mutualism.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The conclusion that the positive correlation between AGS and hares over time indicates apparent competition/mutualism is flawed. Other conclusions are fine, but see below for concerns about mismatched figures and text.
Comments for the author
Fixing this just requires dialing back the rhetoric on apparent competition/mutualism throughout the MS -- the results are all the same. The primary points of the paper are that a) something happened in 2000, and b) the shape of the per capita growth rate vs. density curve for AGS is humped. That creates a predator pit, and could be the reason for the failure of AGS to bounce back after 2000. That's a nice story. -- lines 71 through 75 A nice review of the apparent competition/mutualism literature, but this conclusion is too strong. When populations cycle the shared prey do not necessarily cycle synchronously -- they *can* but they don't have to. Abrams et al define the indirect mutualism/competition as the response of the time-averaged density of species 1 when species 2 is removed. No focus on synchronicity at all. -- line 112 -- just one hypothesis please. -- line 115 through 124 -- just rewrite this as part of the next hypothesis, that predation is holding them down post 2000. The loss of synchronicity can be interpreted as moving to a new stable regime, but doesn't say anything about the mechanisms that created the synchronization in the first place. -- Figure 2 -- should be SE on the points that have them (1990 - 2014 for AGS according to methods). -- line 228 -- R^2 reported in text and in excel sheets doesn't match that in the figure. -- line 238 through 249 -- The lower threshold reported in the text of about 0.5 /ha is nearly double that indicated in the figure closer to 0.25. Also there are 16 points in the figure but only 14 years? R^2 in figure doesn't match figure in excel sheet. In addition, the figure has AGS densities above 0.5, but if you look at figures 2 or 3 AGS are never above 0.5 after 1999. I'm not sure what's actually plotted in that figure. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "You can hide but you can’t run: apparent competition, predator responses and the decline of Arctic ground squirrels in boreal forests of the southwest Yukon (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2303v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 2, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
