Review History for Exploring the impact of positive and negative emotions on cooperative behaviour in a Prisoner’s Dilemma Game [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Exploring the impact of positive and negative emotions on cooperative behaviour in a Prisoner’s Dilemma Game To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 6th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 22nd, 2013. The first revision was submitted on December 3rd, 2013 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 4th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marco Iacoboni
·
Dec 4, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Excellent work that we are pleased you submitted to PeerJ.
label_author_1
Leonardo Christov-Moore ·
Dec 4, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In this study, the authors attempted to address a perceived gap in the literature on emotion and decision-making by inducing guilt (the effects of which are documented) and joy (the effects of which were unclear) in subjects and examining their behavior in the Prisoner's Dilemma (PD). The sought to examine whether the effect of these emotions was significant after controlling for subjects' pre-existing tendency to cooperate (measured via a social value orientation task). They hypothesized that the effect of induced emotion would be significant. To do so, they first conducted a study validating their emotion induction procedure (guilt, joy or neutral emotion). Next, subjects were randomly assigned to one of each of these emotions for induction and made to play a repeated PD to assess the effect of the emotional condition on cooperation. The authors found that while the emotion induction procedures were successful, their effect was not significant with regard to the subject's pre-existing tendency to cooperate (contrary to their hypothesis). However, there was a small but significant effect which emerged when the authors examined the initial trials following the induction. The authors conclude with an interesting discussion of possible reasons for this largely negative finding and the implications for their conclusions. The structure, introduction and background supplied are all sufficient for understanding the rationale for their design and analyses.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Good. The first study's validation-focused design lends especial credibility to the findings discussed in the second study as well as their interpretation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments.
Cite this review as
Christov-Moore L ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Exploring the impact of positive and negative emotions on cooperative behaviour in a Prisoner’s Dilemma Game (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.231v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 3, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marco Iacoboni
·
Nov 22, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As you can see, both reviewers have been very positive. Dealing with the minor issues raised by reviewer 2 will definitely improve the quality of an already good manuscript.
label_author_2
Martin Brüne ·
Nov 22, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper deals with the impact of positive and negative emotions (joy and guilt) on cooperative behavior, examined using a neuroeconomic game, called the Prisoner’s Dilemma (PDG). Participants were instructed to provide short stories about personal events in which they had experiences joy, guilt or a neutral emotion. The task was subsequently modified, before participants were asked to play a PDG. In addition, social value orientation was measures. Unexpectedly, neither joy nor guilt impacted the participants’ behavior in the PDG, whereas social value orientation did. Several possible explanations are discussed why emotions did not influence cooperation in the PDG. Overall, the paper is well written. The Introduction covers much of the relevant material. Methods and Results are adequately described. Statistics are sound. The Discussion comprises several explanations for the negative results of this study (with regard to current emotions). The study sheds some light on the efficacy (or the lack thereof) of psychological manipulation prior to economic decision-making.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Adequate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
good.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
As above. Cite this review as
Brüne M ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Exploring the impact of positive and negative emotions on cooperative behaviour in a Prisoner’s Dilemma Game (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.231v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Leonardo Christov-Moore ·
Nov 18, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The statement made in Lines 73 and 74 hints at an interesting and important idea but is far too vaguely stated. We recommend elaborating on it or rephrasing.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
In the discussion of the first study, there is a point (214-216) in which a more thorough explanation or evidence is necessary to accept the authors' conclusion that "although this group did not differ significantly from the control condition...there was evidence that the intervention was working as expected". In both discussion sections, the evidence of participants' adherence to the manipulation requirements seems relegated solely to informal reviews. Given the importance of the manipulation to interpreting their findings, the authors should provide more details regarding subjects' writings.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Regarding study 1 It is notable that participants's scores on the SSGS Guilt and SSGS shame during the guilt condition did not differ significantly from those in the control condition. This should be considered as more than evidence that guilt and shame were both present in the guilt condition (lines 217-221).
Cite this review as
Christov-Moore L ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Exploring the impact of positive and negative emotions on cooperative behaviour in a Prisoner’s Dilemma Game (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.231v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 6, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
