Review History for An optimized approach to germ-free rearing in the jewel wasp Nasonia [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History An optimized approach to germ-free rearing in the jewel wasp Nasonia To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 30th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 16th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on July 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 12th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Brenda Oppert
·
Jul 12, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for submitting to PeerJ, and for carefully considering and editing according to reviewer comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Brenda Oppert
·
Jun 16, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please find attached the comments with a few suggestions. Sorry, but the letter above is a canned response that I cannot edit-the manuscript does not "require a number of Minor Revisions", only several that may help readers understand the protocol better. I look forward to the resubmission and appreciate your submission to PeerJ.
label_author_1
David Loehlin ·
Jun 4, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This represents a clever improvement of a technique for ex vivo rearing of parasitoid wasps, is well-written, and is clearly within the scope of PeerJ. The review criteria here appear to be acceptable.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
- There is a flaw in the experimental design that should be reported. Specifically, it appears that only one preparation of each type of medium was tested. Since the goal of the study is to demonstrate that the new media preparation method performs adequately, it is critical to know if similar results are attainable when the /preparation/ method is repeated. Note that the observed differential performance of the two media may reflect batch-to-batch differences rather than the effects of the protocol changes. This can only be disentangled by replication. Given that the authors’ goal is to show that the new media does not perform worse than the old media, a high degree of precision does not seem necessary here, just enough evidence shown that the method is reliable. An example of an experiment which would address this issue would be a smaller scale repeat of one of the phenotypic assays (e.g., larval to adult viability) for a few batches of both types of media. - Please mention at the appropriate place in the Methods that a Protocol appears at the end. - Methods & protocol section, regarding centrifuging of homogenate: The language here should be clarified. Step 4 of the protocol reads as if 70mL of homogenate was centrifuged in a 50mL conical tube, and no mention of centrifuge tube/bottle size is given in the methods. - Filters and cell strainers - Please list part name, size, manufacturer, and any additional apparatus. Are these disposable units (e.g., Steri-Flips), sintered glass filter units, syringe filters? How was filtration applied in each case - gravity, vacuum (pump, water-flow), syringe pressure? The other review criteria are acceptable.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See comment above about repeatability of the medium preparation method. The other review criteria are acceptable.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No additional comments. Cite this review as
Loehlin D ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "An optimized approach to germ-free rearing in the jewel wasp Nasonia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2316v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 13, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Upon review of the manuscript “An Optimized Approach to Germ-free Rearing in the Jewel Wasp Nasonia”, I highly recommend that this manuscript be accepted. This manuscript is clear and very well written. The introduction and background are relevant and appropriately referenced. This is a well researched and prepared manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is original and appropriate for the improvement of in vitro rearing of Nasonia.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
This manuscript introduces a protocol for a germ-free media preparation and Nasonia rearing that facilitates further studies that were previously limited or not possible due to confounding antibiotic components and bovine hormones not found in in vivo development. This is important because these cofounders can skew developmental outcomes or microbial associated investigations. The authors address the issue of media optimization for in vitro Nasonia rearing in which they eliminate confounding attributes of the media and mitigate possible problems this would present with modified protocol steps to ensure the elimination of contaminants and an outcome more similar to in vivo development. These research finding are valid and pose benefits not only to Nasonia research but may be beneficial to other developmental research models as well.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
You have prepared a well written manuscript that was a pleasure to read. As a reviewer, I greatly appreciate your efforts. Best to you in your future research endeavors. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "An optimized approach to germ-free rearing in the jewel wasp Nasonia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2316v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Jun 14, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The paper meets PeerJ's standards and shows a new and improved way to rear Nasonia. NRMv2 will be helpful to others and allows for a standardized method for the field. Also allows for less expensive and a simpler way to rear wasps without antibiotics.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The authors show an improved and compelling way to rear Nasonia.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The authors do a great job comparing the NRMv1 and NRMv2. I only have one simple issue- The caption in Fig 2 says (A) shows the number of living Nasonia and it should read the proportion of living Nasonia.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "An optimized approach to germ-free rearing in the jewel wasp Nasonia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2316v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 30, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
