Review History for Synchronised provisioning at the nest: parental coordination over care in a socially monogamous species [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Synchronised provisioning at the nest: parental coordination over care in a socially monogamous species To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 30th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 26th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on December 3rd, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 4th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dany Garant
·
Dec 4, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You have done a great job in answering and integrating the comments previously provided on your manuscript. It is now acceptable for publication in Peer J.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 3, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dany Garant
·
Nov 26, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
We have now received two reviews on your study, both of which were very positive and suggested minor, but highly relevant, revisions. Your manuscript will be thus become acceptable for publication in PeerJ once you’ve addressed these comments and suggestions.
label_author_1
Hugh Drummond ·
Nov 22, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article satisfies your standards in all respects. The introduction and background are particularly helpful.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The inferences, although somewhat speculative, are very reasonable and nicely argued.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a very nice study and the manuscript is clear and easy to follow in all of its sections. The analyses are appropriate, the inferences are persuasively presented and, even though there are no data on predation, I found the conclusions persuasive. Coordination in nest visits may well be an important aspect of biparental care in some birds and this study encourages us all to consider this positive side of biparental relations which, as the authors point out, has been neglected up till now. Variation in synchrony among pairs is an issue raised by the authors but not explained by any of the analyses, so the reader is left wondering. Maybe it could be explained, speculatively, by variation in their foraging patterns, itself due to variation in the territories in which they forage. Abstract. The last sentence does not do justice to what is said in the Discussion and probably should mention sentinel behavior. 95. “bias” rather than “potential bias”, surely. 110. “condition” of who? 113-114 Seems overly tautological. 136. If hatching is asychronous then you need to explain how you identified individual chicks, which is important for the credibility of measures of condition etc. Chicks weren’t banded until age 10 d, so how did you distinguish individuals at that age? 144. What does “same area” refer to? 146-152. The type of monitoring that these data are based on is not described and should be described briefly 157. What is E.P.vR.? 171. “scored” rather than “recorded” 182-183. Were these probabilities of expected coincident visits also based on a criterion of <5min equals coincidence, as seems to be required? 199-200. Too concise for me; I don´t get it. 202. Sample size would be helpful here. 204. Maybe “substantially” rather than “significantly” 267. For “as” maybe substitute “contrary to what has”, to avoid ambiguity. 277. What does “asynchrony in offspring quality” refer to? Need to rephrase. 302. “effect” should be “affect” 303 “having” should be “have”. Cite this review as
Drummond H ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Synchronised provisioning at the nest: parental coordination over care in a socially monogamous species (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.232v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 2, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a well-written manuscript in which the authors present data on a poorly-known Australian passerine: the long-tailed finch (Poephila acuticauda).The authors report an insteresting behaviour (synchronised provisioning) and their possible causes. Overall, I enjoyed the manuscript and I have no major concerns about the approach or interpretations. I think this study is a valuable contribution that deserves to be published. My minor comments are below: L34 A more recent rewiew maybe quoted here (Royle, Smiseth & Kölliker. 2012. The Evolution of Parental Care. Oxford University Press) L118-120 This information is provided in “Ethics”. Remove from “Methods” L121 wooden nestboxes rather than “boxes” L138-139 Why you do not use intra-brood coefficient of variation of nestling body mass (see e.g. Orell 1993)? L139 In some species, hatching asynchrony leads to the presence of “runts” (small nestlings with a very low survival rate -I never ring these chicks-). What is about it? L143 I think “Breeding density” should be “local breeding density” L144 “[…] as the number of active nests in the same area as the focal nest” Non clear. What is the same area? Please provide a more accurate description. For instance, the number of active nests in a 100 m radius (= 100 m). L158-159 You should clarify at which age parents were captured (e.g. adults were captured on day 7-8 post-hatching…) L197 nesting or breeding density? L208 Celsius instead of Celcius L228 …was POSITIVELY related to… L278 Adults were captured, aged and marked but it seems that they were not measured (tarsus length, body mass). I think that adult characteristics (e.g. body condition) could be included as potential predictors of the degree of nest visit synchrony (for instance, females in poor condition could be be escorted more often by their partners) L286-287 Please, add predation rate for the study area Fig. 1. The figure legend is a bit dull, please add more information (species, n, etc.) Concluding remark. (suggestion on further work) It would be interesting to explore parental feeding positions (see Lessells et al. 2006) and food distribution among siblings (Lessells 2002, Parker et al. 2002, Smiseth et al. 2003, Dickens & Hartley 2007) when they work in concert (synchronised provisioning) or alone. By this way, authors may determine if parents employ the same food allocation rules when they feed their young alone or accompanied
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Synchronised provisioning at the nest: parental coordination over care in a socially monogamous species (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.232v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 30, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
