Review History for Selection of a marker gene to construct a reference library for wetland plants, and the application of metabarcoding to analyze the diet of wintering herbivorous waterbirds [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Selection of a marker gene to construct a reference library for wetland plants, and the application of metabarcoding to analyze the diet of wintering herbivorous waterbirds To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 12th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 16th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 23rd, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on June 29th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 19th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Michael Somers
·
Jul 19, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Well done on a good MS. This is a nice contribution to the growing use of metabarcoding to determine diet.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 29, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Michael Somers
·
Jun 22, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have made some very minor changes for the final submission - see attached file.
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 23, 2016
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Somers
·
May 16, 2016
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Only minor issues have been identified by the two referees below and these should not take you too long to address. I look forward to receiving the revision.
label_author_1
Michael Cunningham ·
Apr 30, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is well referenced and conforms to the PeerJ standard. Figures are relevant and adequate. Although the authors' intended meaning is reasonably clear throughout I felt that the English could be greatly improved through numerous minor corrections in word usage and order (Because there are many I have made suggested changes on the attached version of the manuscript for the authors to consider). In several instances hyperbole detracted from the presentation - I recommend removal of excess adjectives. There is some inconsistency in spelling, such as feces versus faeces (choose either American or standard English spelling). The use of species attributions (authorship) is highly inconsistent and adds unnecessary clutter. Table S1 is critical and should be in the main manuscript but could be improved by converting this to a simple species list and replacing replicate listings with a column for numbers of plants sampled. The raw molecular data is available through the NCBI Sequence Read Archive SRP070470.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
As original primary research in the field of molecular ecology, this is within the ambit of PeerJ. The questions addressed are clear (can metabarcoding improve on traditional methods for dietary analyses of migratory waterbirds, what are the best genes to use and what plant food resources are required for two species of geese at an important wintering site in central eastern China). Description of the analysis pipeline needs slight revision, specifying details (as noted in the manuscript). The % discrimination within groups (Rf) is a poor measure of resolvability because it depends on species sampling an phylogenetic context in each taxon - these qualifications on this measure should be stated. The arguments given for the choice of gene are inconsistent - in the end the choice is based largely on convenience (reasonably so). This could be made more explicit. Apart from this the experimental design is appropriate to the questions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data are robust and appropriately stated. I thought more could have been made of the striking difference in diet of the two species, and also, in cases where it was not possible to identify plants to species these might have been restricted to a subgeneric species cluster rather than a genus or family (e.g. Carex spp. excludes the most important species considered, Carex heterolepis).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
While I do not agree with you that diet analysis is the most important aspect of understanding migratory bird conservation and population dynamics, I do see that it is an important aspect. All the best with your research and I hope to read subsequent papers following up on quantitative metabarcoding and on more extensive species analyses (waders with invertebrate diets?) and suggestions on how this can be applied to habitat augmentation or rehabilitation. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Cunningham M ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Selection of a marker gene to construct a reference library for wetland plants, and the application of metabarcoding to analyze the diet of wintering herbivorous waterbirds (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2345v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 10, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This study mainly deals with the comparison of the efficiency of eight potential metabarcoding markers for geese diet analysis. However, this aspect neither appeared in the title nor in the abstract. I suggest to include it both in the title and in the abstract. Furthermore, the diet results are preliminary, and only validate the approach.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design has been done to validate the methods, not to really assess the diet of the two geese species.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Nothing wrong in the findings, but less emphasize must be given to the diet results according to the relatively low sample size.
Comments for the author
Minor comments: Line 21: the c/h trnL primers used here amplify a longer fragment than the P6 loop. The P6 loop is amplified with g/h primers (see Taberlet et al. 2007). Table 1: the exact reference for the trnL c primer is "Taberlet P, Gielly L, Pautou G, Bouvet J (1991) Universal primers for amplification of three non-coding regions of chloroplast DNA. Plant Molecular Biology, 17, 1105–1109." Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Selection of a marker gene to construct a reference library for wetland plants, and the application of metabarcoding to analyze the diet of wintering herbivorous waterbirds (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2345v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 12, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
