Review History for Effects of reduced dissolved oxygen concentrations on physiology and fluorescence of hermatypic corals and benthic algae [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effects of reduced dissolved oxygen concentrations on physiology and fluorescence of hermatypic corals and benthic algae To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 1st, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 30th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on December 5th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 11th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Pei-Yuan Qian
·
Dec 11, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am happy with your revision and happy to accept your ms for publication as it is.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 5, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Pei-Yuan Qian
·
Nov 30, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors, First of all, our sincere apology for the unusually slow review process, which was due to the circumstances outside of our control. We have now two reviews in hands, which are very positive but also raise some issues that require your attention and revision. Please go through the comments and submit your revised ms for further consideration.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 30, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This study compared the effects of reduced oxygen concentrations on the physiology and fluorescence of a coral Acropora yongei and a green alga Bryopsis pennata. The rationale of the study is clearly spelled out. The experimental design is well thought out with the experiments being executed cautiously. Data are analyzed by appropriate statistical tests and results have provided convincing evidence on the differential responses of the coral and alga to reduced oxygen concentrations. The breadth and depth of the discussion is appropriate. The paper can be accepted for publication subject to minor revision. Below are comments and suggestions for improving the manuscript: 1)Line 168, replace “at” by “on”. 2)Line 280, Fig. S1 is not included in the submitted manuscript. 3)Line 307, Fig. S2 is not included in the submitted manuscript. 4)Lines 391-392. It should be moved to the Materials and Methods as nothing is mentioned in the Materials and Methods about why green fluorescence was measured. 5)Line 419-420. It should be moved to the Introduction. 6)Line 461. Replace “studies” by “studied”. 7)Fig. 1. Provide more information of the box plots. I guess the size of the box is the data range and the line in the box is the mean value. 8)Fig. 1. For results on corals under different oxygen concentrations, the colour contrast of the bars should be improved. 9)Table. 2. The data arrangement is wrong. The statistical results do not align with the column titles correctly. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effects of reduced dissolved oxygen concentrations on physiology and fluorescence of hermatypic corals and benthic algae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.235v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 18, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Well done.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No flaw
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Review of Peerj-868 This is interesting coral/algal interactions study where authors have successfully tested the effect low dissolved oxygen on their physiological health. This manuscript is timely contribution in the field of coral biology and marine ecology. The experimental design and data analysis used in the study are appropriate to address their objectives and there was no flaw. The results and the subject discussion are appropriate to publish in PeerJ. Although the manuscript is well written, need a revision before consideration for publication. I have the following suggestions for authors, which I hope would help them to revise the manuscript. Abstract: It read well. “Amongst various potential mechanisms, algal exudates can mediate increases in microbial activity, leading to localized hypoxic conditions which could cause coral mortality in the direct vicinity” – is this is authors hypothesis? If so, it should be explicitly stated in the end whether is accepted or rejected. “extremely low oxygen concentrations (< 4 mg L-1)” – not clear, <4 is too general and authors should be specific – what happens at hypoxia level (2.8 mg?). Introduction: Again reads very well. Line 101: Authors need to explain why oxygen released during algal photosynthesis does not raise DO level in algal/coral interface? Line 102-109: Need a solid hypothesis – authors have it (as shown in the abstract) and it should spell out clearly here. Materials and methods 114 -115: The key point is that: animals were acclimatized in the laboratory for year or so – how could then results obtained from this study applicable to field condition – what are the limitations of this approach – this should be briefly stated here. 119: “prier” – how long? 145-150: Why these DO level? 166: Somewhere authors should say how these measured biological parameters will help them to address their question or hypothesis – I am not sure yet. Results Table 1: Looks too difficult to read – it can be easily converted into chart showing variation of DO during the experiment with SD values Table 2: Looks an unusual ANOVA table – has to be modified using the standard Stat result tables. Discussion Well written Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effects of reduced dissolved oxygen concentrations on physiology and fluorescence of hermatypic corals and benthic algae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.235v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 1, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
