Review History for Are sites with multiple single nucleotide variants in cancer genomes a consequence of drivers, hypermutable sites or sequencing errors? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Are sites with multiple single nucleotide variants in cancer genomes a consequence of drivers, hypermutable sites or sequencing errors? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 29th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 30th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on July 25th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 1st, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ugo Bastolla
·
Aug 1, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I think this is an important contribution that will stimulate methodological improvements in the computational treatment of NGS data and help to clarify mutational processes.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 25, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ugo Bastolla
·
Jun 30, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers consider the study well designed and very interesting and I agree with them. However, reviewer 2 suggests two points that deserve further discussion: the influence of the presence of similar variants, although not identical, in the genome, and, more importantly, the possibility that genetic and environmental differences may have a role in the observed heterogeneity. Please discuss these points in the revised version.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 29, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Over the past eight years, the profusion of whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing studies has led to huge datasets of somatic mutations found in cancer samples. This is making it possible to see in unprecedented detail not only the driving events of cancer, but also the common artifacts of our sequencing technology. Distinguishing between these two classes of observations has proven to be a greater challenge than anticipated. In particular, there has been a reliance in the field on observing recurrent mutations at the same genomic position in multiple samples. This is taken as prima facie evidence of positive selection in tumorigenesis, since the chances of observing exactly the same mutation in multiple samples is vanishingly small. Studies such as Chang et al. PMID 26619011 and many others present lists of recurrently mutated positions, seemingly without appreciation for the possibility that some may actually be recurrent artifacts. The current study points out that there are many more recurrently mutated sites in the genome than would be possible in a model without recurrent non-driver mutations. The authors show this in a straightforward, easily understood way. Furthermore, they point out that different laboratories in the world, analyzing the same kind of cancer, find many *different* recurrently mutated positions in the genome, consistent with a model of technology-specific artifacts. This is an elegant fundamental advance in the analysis of somatic mutations in cancer, and a crucial warning for the field.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Are sites with multiple single nucleotide variants in cancer genomes a consequence of drivers, hypermutable sites or sequencing errors? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2391v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 30, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The study is well designed. It is, however, unclear how "uniquely mappable" is defined. If it means that the 20-mer around the mutation only occur once in the genome, it would be more interesting to allow some wiggle room, i.e., the 20-mer is uniquely mappable if there is no other 20-mer in genome that matches with say 90%. See e.g. Bailey et al (2004) (pmid 11381028). This is particularly interesting if we assume that called variant is caused at the mismatch between two similar regions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
In the section "Privacy of mutations" the authors write the significant heterogeneity suggests the excess sites were predominantly error. While it is a possible explanation, it seems a bit overstated conclusion as it very well might be a biological explanation such as difference between Japanese and American patients - either genetic differences or environmental differences such as diet.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors state repeatedly that the model is rejected by a goodness-of-fit test, which means the model is not perfect. The paper would benefit from having some discussion on what the natural next step would be to improve the model. Minor comment: Bottom of page 11 it says p>0.0001; should probably be p<0.0001 Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Are sites with multiple single nucleotide variants in cancer genomes a consequence of drivers, hypermutable sites or sequencing errors? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2391v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 29, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
