Review History for Influence of droplet coverage on the electrochemical response of planar microelectrodes and potential solving strategies based on nesting concept [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Influence of droplet coverage on the electrochemical response of planar microelectrodes and potential solving strategies based on nesting concept To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 10th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 22nd, 2016. The first revision was submitted on August 1st, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 3rd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marjorie Longo
·
Aug 3, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have sufficiently addressed the comments with appropriate changes to the manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 1, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marjorie Longo
·
Jul 22, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please address all of the comments of reviewer 1 regarding Experimental design and Validity of the findings. After we receive your revised manuscript, reviewer 1 may be asked to help determine if the comments were addressed sufficiently. In addition, in my reading of the manuscript, I did not understand why bacteria was used in the nest configuration experiments but bacteria was not used in the ring configuration experiments. I expect this point to be clarified in the revised manuscript. In addition, why was impedance spectroscopy used (shown) for the nested devices but cyclic voltametry was used (shown) for the ring devices? I expect this point to be clarified in the revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 20, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript reports a structural design of an electrochemical biosensor; the proposed simple but robust electrodes have been considered as one of the promising detection tools especially for small biomolecules. Although the geometric configuration of the electrodes are conventionally accepted and have been progressed with abundant of approaches as referred on this manuscript, there are still many rooms for in-depth researches or other viable approaches to be used for real applications.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
They defined a method so called "screen-printed interdigitated microelectrodes (SPIMs)" and used in this paper. However, they did not explain the details of procedures and materials systems. On this, the minimal information, at least, should be supplied in the experimental section as listed below. 1. what materials that they used; materials system should be mentioned (e.g., carbon based materials, metallic surface, etc) so as to explain the details of surface morphologies of electrodes that they obtained. Because the printed materials directly can act with biomolecules onto the electrodes, this is important to see uniformity of the surface of the electrodes - this is critical because the CV data usually are affected by this. 2. the printing method; this is also influenced by the printing system. So, please provide the exact method using a schematic illustration or pictures of equipment. Also, experimental conditions to manipulate the electrodes should be mentioned such as printing conditions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
They supplied sufficient experimental data of fabricating the 3D printed "nests" to incubate the analytes effectively. The authors addressed the advantages of 3D printed ring adapted devices. However, in Figure 9, the signals looked similar although the sharp contrasts were generated. The readers might be confused what would be the main progress; I suggest the authors clarify the realtionship between the cycles of measurements and the changes of CV curves in Figure 9 with additional information.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Influence of droplet coverage on the electrochemical response of planar microelectrodes and potential solving strategies based on nesting concept (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2400v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Ruxandra Vidu ·
Jul 11, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Cite this review as
Vidu R ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Influence of droplet coverage on the electrochemical response of planar microelectrodes and potential solving strategies based on nesting concept (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2400v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 10, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
