Review History for Polymorphic DNA microsatellite markers for forensic individual identification and parentage analyses of seven threatened species of parrots (family Psittacidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Polymorphic DNA microsatellite markers for forensic individual identification and parentage analyses of seven threatened species of parrots (family Psittacidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 17th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 15th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on August 4th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 5th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michael Wink
·
Aug 5, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors Although I am not completely happy with your handling of my requests I will accept the paper. Regards, Michael
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 4, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Wink
·
Jul 15, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear authors your ms has now been reviewed. As you see one of the reviewers would like to have more information. To their comments, I would like to add: 1. Provide Information of your supplementary table in the main text, as this is the information, which other labs might be interested in. 2. Describe your multiplex PCR in more detail; which loci did you include in one PCR? 3. Provide a Figure showing the chromatograms of your multiplex PCR 4. Use your data on real type of experiments; maybe you have samples from complete families. There you could should how well your primers work. 5. Keep in mind; your paper should be directly useful to other researchers in this field. Thus, include ALL necessary details, that others can repeat your work Kind regards Michael Wink
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 11, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
To describe the power of a value e.g. in line 130 of Results and Discussion part, 1.1E-06 to 3.3E-08 should be written as 1.1x10-06 to 3.3x10-08. The same form should be used I table 1. In table 1 for values NA, Ho, HE and P1-P3 one number after the decimal is enough. Concerning primer characterization, additional information about Polymorfic Information Content PIC and potential evidence for null alleles (at least) would be necessary. The presented characteristics are rather insufficient. Furthermore, a test parentage analyze would have been nice to show the work potential of the markers in reality. The establishment of multiplex PCRs was mentioned. It would be useful to present these panels.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No Comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Polymorphic DNA microsatellite markers for forensic individual identification and parentage analyses of seven threatened species of parrots (family Psittacidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2416v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 13, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is well-written and clear. There are only a couple of minor typographical errors that I could find: 1. Line 91 “allow to setup” does not make sense, should read “allow a genetic identification and parentage DNA testing framework to be set up to …”. 2. Line 157 “composed of several hundreds wild ..” should read “composed of several hundred wild …”.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The study is clearly set out and the research question is clear.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The inferences made by the authors appear to be appropriate with respect to their analyses.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Whilst the study does not necessarily represent a major leap forward, it does make an important case for identification of smuggled parrots and a technique for this. It would have been nice to have seen more of a discussion of the practicalities of using their suite of microsatellite markers for discrimination between captive bred individuals and smuggled parrots, but I recognise that this is a concise study. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Polymorphic DNA microsatellite markers for forensic individual identification and parentage analyses of seven threatened species of parrots (family Psittacidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2416v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 17, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
