Review History for Development and characterization of 24 polymorphic microsatellite loci for the freshwater fish Ichthyoelephas longirostris (Characiformes: Prochilodontidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Development and characterization of 24 polymorphic microsatellite loci for the freshwater fish Ichthyoelephas longirostris (Characiformes: Prochilodontidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 25th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 23rd, 2016. The first revision was submitted on May 3rd, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on August 5th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 7th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Robert Toonen
·
Aug 7, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your detailed edits of the manuscript. You have addressed all the concerns that the referees and I had with your initial submission, and I am happy to accept the revised manuscript and move it forward into production at this time.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 5, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Robert Toonen
·
Jun 29, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have reviewed your resubmission, and you have done a good job of addressing the concern of the referees that the initial submission did not address a biological question, but the new sections need some additional work before the paper can be accepted. There are issues with grammar and language usage that need to be resolved before this manuscript can be accepted. I have sent you a word document with tracked changes suggesting edits throughout and am willing to work with you directly to finalize the edits prior to final acceptance. Please look for my email with the marked-up manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 3, 2016
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Robert Toonen
·
Mar 23, 2016
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I am sorry for the delay in getting this back to you - we were waiting on a third referees who just backed out on compleiing the review, but the other two referees have detailed and similar reviews, so I am happy to move forward with these. There are two primary issues that must be dealt with prior to the paper being acceptable for publication. The first is that the journal has decided that microsatellite primer notes do not fit the criteria of the Research Articles category, and have adopted a policy that there must be some sort of biological analysis to complete the characterization of the microsats rather than simply a primer note. You will need to provide some biological analysis using these primers to complete the work prior to it being acceptable for publication. The second issue.is the language use and grammar. Both referees have provided extensive comments to improve the English of the article (please check for the marked-up manuscript attachments), but a quick read indicates that they have missed some also. I would suggest that you find a native English speaker to assist you with your edits if at all possible, and can suggest some options for you if you need assistance. I look forward to seeing your revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Pedro Galetti Jr ·
Mar 6, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript describes the isolation and characterization of a set of 24 polymorphic microsatellites obtained by next-gen sequencing technology in a freshwater fish species from Colombia. In general, the manuscript is adequate to the journal scope as PeerJ has been published similar papers, typically characterized by a writing structure of a primer note description. The results presented in this manuscript are very useful to any one who wants to study population genetics of Ichthyoelephas longirostris, a very interesting species of Prochilodontidae, appearing in a basal branch of the family phylogeny. I would suggest include at least one or two sentences in the Introduction section presenting such importance of this species, besides its conservation concerning. The comparison of levels of observed heterozygosity between species (Discussion) should be rewrite. Why would it be expected that such levels should be “concordant”? Moreover, there are several grammatical mistakes and an extensive revision by an English native is imperative. Minor points are directly indicated in the pdf attached. I would suggest rewrite the Abstract without mention to the equipment brand in which the large-scale sequencing was made; and the same in the keywords.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No additional comments. The authors used proper methods and analyses to present their list of isolated microsatellites for the species studied.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No additional comments. The results presented in this manuscript are very useful to any one who wants to study population genetics of Ichthyoelephas longirostris, a very interesting species of Prochilodontidae, appearing in a basal branch of the family phylogeny. I would suggest include at least one or two sentences in the Introduction section presenting such importance of this species, besides its conservation concerning. The comparison of levels of observed heterozygosity between species (Discussion) should be rewrite. Why would it be expected that such levels should be “concordant”? Minor points are directly indicated in the pdf attached. I would suggest rewrite the Abstract without mention to the equipment brand in which the large-scale sequencing was made; and the same in the keywords.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No additional comments. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Galetti Jr P ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Development and characterization of 24 polymorphic microsatellite loci for the freshwater fish Ichthyoelephas longirostris (Characiformes: Prochilodontidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2419v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This article describes a new set of microsatellite markers for an endemic freshwater fish endemic to a river basin in Colombia. These markers will be an important tool to investigate the evolution and ecology of a species belonging to a very interesting assemblage of fishes for which very little is known. The manuscript meets the standards of such a publication. However, it is necessary to have the article checked by an English speaker prior to publication. Adding one or two sentences in the introduction describing the basic ecology of the species would add value to the article (e.g. say it is a freshwater fish). I added a few minor comments to the PDF document attached.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
the experimental design is appropriate
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are valid
Comments for the author
No additional general comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Development and characterization of 24 polymorphic microsatellite loci for the freshwater fish Ichthyoelephas longirostris (Characiformes: Prochilodontidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2419v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 25, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
