Review History for In situ visualization of bacterial populations in coral tissues: pitfalls and solutions [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History In situ visualization of bacterial populations in coral tissues: pitfalls and solutions To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 3rd, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 23rd, 2016. The first revision was submitted on August 4th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 9th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Fabiano Thompson
·
Aug 9, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Bourne. Congratulations, your article is Accepted. Sincerely. Fabiano Thompson.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 4, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Fabiano Thompson
·
Jun 23, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. David Bourne There are some minor revisions required. In addition to the two referees remarks, please inform the number of coral specimens they sampled and used in their FISH assays, and an explanation for the choice of a probe hybridization temperature of 46oC and any optimization they might have made, since this is critical for probe specificity. I will look forward to listen from you. Fabiano
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 20, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Wada et al. provide valuable information regarding coral tissue microbial community/assembly visualization in the manuscript “In situ visualization of bacterial populations in coral tissues: pitfalls and solutions”. The manuscript is relevant and well written and should be published after minor revisions. Please see bellow my comments, I hope authors find it useful to improve their manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Despite authors have multiple samples from different coral colonies is not clear enough how they treated them. Considering this, there are some statistical analysis that could support authors ideas/results? I suggest including a workflow flowchart illustrating all the steps to achieve the results (manuscript figures). If authors and Editor find appropriate, I also suggest authors include a step-by-step protocol as Supplementary Information. In this material solution receipts and preparation recommendations, for instance, would benefit readers to follow authors’ methods much better.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Authors collected many samples from diseased and healthy corals but are not clear both in Material and Methods and Results and discussion sections how they analyzed it quantitatively and how robust their approach is. Authors need to make this information clear in manuscript.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Abstract: I suggest including more information regarding the results obtained in the present study as well describe better the conclusive remarks made in the main text body. Line 28-33: This sentence is too long. Please revise to improve readability. Introduction Line 50: Authors should carefully check the references before resubmitting. Moter & Gobel, 2000 do not have reference to J Microbiol Methods, for instance. Line 58: What would be these interactions? Line 63: Endozoicomonas? Line 70: Authors would explain briefly what is coral auto-fluorescence in introduction. Maybe just one sentence would be enough. Material and Methods Line 80: Would authors include a picture of both healthy and WS-infected corals? I understand that “WS” is White Syndrome, right? Please do not abbreviate here. This is the first time to mention WS. Line 84: How many samples in total? How many colonies? Please make sure to describe this information clearly here. Line 94: Please write the full term of “PBS” before abbreviating it. For how many time and in what temperature did authors embedded samples in 1.5% agarose? Line 98: How many days in total? Line 107: Did authors develop all these methods? If so, please make sure to make it clear here. Line 110: Manufacture for Mayer’s Heamalum? Please add information regarding what structures/cells this reagent attaches to. Line 118: Did authors develop all these methods? If so, please make sure to make it clear here. Line 150: Please provide better details about what were the problems to be overcome in this subsection. Line 151: this sentence is not clear. Please revise it. Results and Discussion Lines 166-168: I think this information would be moved to Methods section. Lines 193-197: I understand that analyzing all those microscopies is a very laboring task and ones need to be well trained but how? Maybe authors would provide readers valuable information regarding how someone can be prepared to be familiar with coral cellular structure and differentiate it. How to avoid the intrinsic subjective interpretation? Lines 215-216: What would be “detailed understanding” objectively? Please the see comment above. Figures Figures quality is very good. I suggest moving figure S1 to the main text. If authors and editor find appropriate, I would suggest including a flowchart representing all the workflow. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "In situ visualization of bacterial populations in coral tissues: pitfalls and solutions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2424v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 23, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The ms describes a series of improvements in FISH techniques to allow unambiguous detection of bacteria in coral tissues, mainly to overcome the problem of non-specific binding of targeted rRNA probes to cellular structures within the coral tissues. The work done is scientifically sound and the text is very well written. Methods, to the best of my knowledge, are appropriate. Results are clearly presented with high quality micrographs. I have only some minor comments that I list below. line 80: what is WS-infected? White Syndrome? Please explain. line 84: how many specimens were sampled? line 123: did you mean proteinase K? lines 131: how was the probe temperature of 46C chosen? Did you do any optimization? If so please explain. line 205. Why non-fluorescent? Shouldn't it be "fluorescent" or "non-specific signal" or "auto-fluorescence"? line 255: versus
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
no comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "In situ visualization of bacterial populations in coral tissues: pitfalls and solutions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2424v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 3, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
