Review History for Genetic signatures of ecological diversity along an urbanization gradient [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Genetic signatures of ecological diversity along an urbanization gradient To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 12th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 9th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on August 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 15th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tomas Hrbek
·
Aug 15, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Ryan, Thank you for revising your MS. In my opinion you satisfactorily revised the MS and addressed all pertinent comments of the referees, and thus I am recommending accept. All the best, Tomas Hrbek
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tomas Hrbek
·
Aug 9, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Ryan, Both reviewers suggest Accept but have some questions and minor points that they would like you to address. I agree with the evaluations of both of the reviewers, and because of these points I made a decision of minor revision. But please consider the article accepted. All the best, Tomas Hrbek
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 1, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is clearly written and meets the basic requirements of PeerJ publications.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The submission describes- to my knowledge- original research which presents a clear research question and contains appropriate and rigorous methodology.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I believe the findings and conclusions made by the authors are valid.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I have reviewed the manuscript “Genetic signatures of ecological diversity along an urbanization gradient” by Kelly et al. The manuscript describes the application of environmental DNA (eDNA) surveillance methodology and next-generation sequencing to explore biodiversity impacts at more and less developed sites within the Puget Sound. I believe the manuscript successfully advances the field of eDNA study toward addressing more interesting and fundamental ecological questions, and the exploration of potential homogenization along a gradient of human impacted systems will also be of broad appeal to the community of ecologists. I do have several minor comments that could improve the manuscript if addressed, which I list below. •Line 104: Please provide the methodology for how total DNA was quantified. •Line 124: Please justify choice of a non-native fish as the positive control- to what extent does this control for what one would expect to see in environmental samples within the Puget Sound? •Lines 141-142: Please provide some additional information to support the statement “the results do not depend significantly on the choice of rarefaction replicates.” For example, was there some sort of bootstrapping or power analysis that preceded the final results presented within the manuscript? •Line 214: Following the data presented here, 8% of reads (30% of OTUs) could not be annotated as species common to the Puget Sound or surrounding environment. I would like to see these discussed in more detail, as I think it is relevant to the overall patterns observed (see next point). •Line 341-342: Invasive species are presented very rapidly as a possible explanation for the results presented within the manuscript, but not explored in any detail. Unlike other explanations presented within the discussion whose causation cannot be assessed explicitly (Line 313-314), I believe invasion-mediated biotic homogenization could be explored in more detail. Relevant to my previous point, are the same introduced species present at each site? This would result in increased alpha and decreased beta diversity as observed. Thus, a table identifying non-native species/families at each site could be quite informative. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Genetic signatures of ecological diversity along an urbanization gradient (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2444v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Rupert Collins ·
Aug 9, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this manuscript, Kelly et al. use analysis of eDNA in the marine environment to infer effects of urbanisation on marine biodiversity using a range of ecological metrics. I thought the results were interesting, the analysis well executed and interpreted, and the manuscript was a pleasure to read. I have very little to add, but the authors may wish to consider the following suggestions: L90. The concept of “imperviousness” is used throughout the manuscript, and while I assume it’s just the proportion of concrete and man-made hard surfaces in the environment, it might be good to define this a little better for the casual reader. L104. Why was the DNA extract from the filters diluted 1:100? L109. The primer bias and non-detection issue was discussed in the manuscript, but given that these are new primers and may end up being useful to the eDNA community, it might be worth running an in-silico step to determine rough degree of primer coverage over perhaps a selection of local marine species that have data on GenBank. The program MFEprimer is quite good for this (https://github.com/quwubin/MFEprimer). L312. Another possibility to consider which might explain the results are prevailing winds or tides. Obviously these factors influence where humans settle, and there also may be an effect in consistently pushing water from areas of higher biodiversity toward or away from other areas? Cite this review as
Collins R ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Genetic signatures of ecological diversity along an urbanization gradient (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2444v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 12, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
