Review History for XA21-specific induction of stress-related genes following Xanthomonas infection of detached rice leaves [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History XA21-specific induction of stress-related genes following Xanthomonas infection of detached rice leaves To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 14th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 29th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on August 10th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 15th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Sheila McCormick
·
Aug 15, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the reviewer comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 10, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Sheila McCormick
·
Jul 29, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please incorporate/address the suggestions from the reviewers, or explain to me if you think any cannot be addressed.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 26, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Generally this was well done. A few more sentences about the role of type I secretion system in delivering RaxX might strengthen the significance of this finding (lines 240-245). line 234: word missing, perhaps “EFR:XA21:GFP lines” line 241: “in plants inoculated with” line 248-249: I did not see any data supporting that ROS production is induced after treatment with the RaxX21-sY peptide in the detached leaf assay. This should be rephrased as a future aim, or the data should be shown to demonstrate that it works. line 447: Figure 5 legend is incomplete.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Pruitt et al recently showed that RaxX is required to induce Xa21 immunity. As RaxX is located in a different operon from RaxSTAB, it is possible that it contributes differently to marker gene expression (Figure 5). It would be good to know that the marker genes respond in the same way to RaxX as they do to RaxST, particularly if this will be used as a surrogate system to infection, as discussed on lines 246-253.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The detached leaf assay could potentially be a powerful system to investigate the molecular mechanisms. However it was not completely convincing to me that the detached leaf assay can distinguish between resistance and susceptibility. For example, the Figure 2 legend indicates that bacterial ooze was observed from both Kitaake and Myc:Xa21 lines infected with PX099A, and Figure 3 shows similar levels of Os8N3 gene induction in either genotype in response to PX099A. Since Kitaake is supposed to be susceptible and Myc:Xa21 is supposed to be resistant, it seems that a difference should be observed in both experiments. For Figure 2, quantitation of the level of bacterial growth in the two genotypes and a difference between the two genotypes would more convincingly demonstrate resistance versus susceptibility. In addition, the authors should include additional negative controls in Figure 3, i.e. rice cultivars that are known not to respond to Os8N3, to ensure marker gene expression is unaffected by the environment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors previously showed that transgenic plants carrying a gene encoding the EFR LRR domain, Xa21 transmembrane and intracellular domain and GFP (EFR:Xa21:GFP) respond to the elf18 PAMP and provide partial immunity to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). In this manuscript, using the EFR:Xa21:GFP reporter lines, they identified candidate genes that are activated by Xa21 using RNAseq. They chose 23 differentially regulated genes (DRGs) for further analysis and validated 11/23 by qPCR. The authors developed a detached leaf assay to evaluate induction of the Xa21-mediated immune response in rice. Using the detached leaf assay, they showed that PR10b gene expression was induced in resistant Myc:Xa21 lines infected with PX099A or a <U+2206>hrpA1 mutant. 8/11 DRGs were induced in Myc:Xa21 lines treated with PX099A or PX099A<U+2206>raxST(raxST) but not PX099A<U+2206>raxST or Kitaake lines with any of the treatments, suggesting that these genes are specifically induced during resistance in response to RaxST. The other 3 DRGs appear to have been specific to EFR:Xa21:GFP instead of Xa21. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "XA21-specific induction of stress-related genes following Xanthomonas infection of detached rice leaves (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2446v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 29, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I do not see reference to the raw data RNAseq experiment. These files can be deposited to the NCBI Sequence Read Archive or to JGI's portal as in Schwessinger et al 2015a
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments. Experimental designs are well explained and the paper has a thorough materials and methods section.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments. New data on elicitation of an XA21 chimera are well presented and primers/locus numbers for helpful elicitation markers are given.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript is clearly written and presents several well-designed experiment on rice plants elicited via the XA21 pathway. It also details a protocol for successful infection of detached rice leaves with Xanthomonas oryzae. Genes upregulated over a timecourse of elicitation in transgenic rice expressing an elf18 triggered EFR::XA21 chimera are identified by RNAseq. Marker candidates are validated by qPCR and confirmed to be regulated similarly in a bacterial resistance reaction using XA21 transgenic rice. Controls are abundant and appropriate for the detached leaf experiment, relying on the group’s recent rax21 findings. The figures are clear and primers for these XA21 markers are helpfully presented. Specific comments: Line 73: It would be helpful here to restate the amino acid cutoffs for the chimeric break. Line 187: Do lesions eventually form in the detached leaf assay? Line 248: this paragraph states the “infection assay” is novel and useful, but goes on to describe advantages of peptide treatment of detached leaves, not bacterial infection. The peptide treatment has been performed by this group previously. Are there research advantages to involving the bacteria? Fig 1: Could the sum of DRGs for each timepoint be presented, maybe on the outside of the Venn diagram? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "XA21-specific induction of stress-related genes following Xanthomonas infection of detached rice leaves (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2446v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 14, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
