Review History for Snake venomics of Bothrops punctatus, a semiarboreal pitviper species from Antioquia, Colombia [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Snake venomics of Bothrops punctatus , a semiarboreal pitviper species from Antioquia, Colombia To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 11th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 24th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on December 27th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 27th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Dec 27, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing reviewers' critical points and careful revision of the manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 27, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Dec 24, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address critical points raised by the reviewer #2.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 24, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript meets the guidelines for this publisher.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Straightforward approach using typical proteomic techniques.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results support the conclusions of this work.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors have described a straightforward analysis of the venom proteome of an interesting Bothrops snake. The work was well done and thorough with appropriate reference to the literature. Although little new scientific information results from this it does add to the general data base of venom proteomics and will potentially play a significant role as we continue studying these venoms. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Snake venomics of Bothrops punctatus, a semiarboreal pitviper species from Antioquia, Colombia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.246v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Juan Calvete ·
Dec 13, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Fernández-Culma and colleagues report a comprehensive proteomics characterization of the poorly characterized venom of Bothrops punctatus, an endangered, semi-arboreal pitviper species distributed in Panamá, Colombia, and Ecuador. The protein composition of B. punctatus venom comprises proteins from at least nine snake toxin families, and correlates with the enzymatic activities assayed. A comparison of B. punctatus venom and venoms from other Bothrops species evidenced notable differences. Overall, this well-designed and clearly written venomics study adds further data in support of the wide diversity of strategies that have evolved in snake venoms to subdue prey. In previous studies it was found that the lethal potency of this venom to mice was highest among the different Bothrops venoms analyzed, being only second to that of Crotalus durissus terrificus venom. Although reports of proven envenomings caused by B. punctatus are rare, a knowledge of its venom composition and toxic activities is of outmost relevance in case of having to attend an envenoming caused by this species. The manuscript deserves thus publication. However, the authors may wish to address the following minor points in a revised version: 1.- Lines 197-198: "BPPs are oligopeptides of 5–14 amino acid residues, rich in pyroglutamyl and proline residues..." Well, pyroglutamate occurs only once in a peptide sequence, and thus can not be considered an abundant residue.... 2.- Lines 215-217: "...venom components affecting haemostasis, such as procoagulant SPs with thrombin-like activity, or some CTL components that potently interfere with platelets, among others." What about disintegrins? 3.- High-resolution Figure 2 should be provided. 4.- In the heading of Table 1, the symbol for "non-reduced" is missing. 5.- Whats the meaning of "pa" in EpaNGDVVCGGDDPCBK? 6.- Table 1, peaks 3 and 4. In many venoms these peaks contain tripeptide inhibitors of SVMPs, such as ZBW and ZNW. Did the authors check the mass range m/z 400-450? 7.- Why was 17b DNBDTYDXBYWFYGAK assigned as D49-PLA2? This peptide does not encompass the amino acid containing the D49 residue.. Cite this review as
Calvete J ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Snake venomics of Bothrops punctatus, a semiarboreal pitviper species from Antioquia, Colombia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.246v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 11, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
