Review History for Sexual coevolution of spermatophore envelopes and female genital traits in butterflies: Evidence of male coercion? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Sexual coevolution of spermatophore envelopes and female genital traits in butterflies: Evidence of male coercion? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 27th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 18th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on December 23rd, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 29th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dezene Huber
·
Dec 29, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your clear and precise response to the reviews. Thank you, also, for being willing to publish the reviews and your rebuttal alongside the paper. Those will provide a great deal of context for readers. And, of course, thanks to the referees for their excellent reviews of this MS.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 23, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dezene Huber
·
Nov 18, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for submitting this interesting study to PeerJ. One reviewer recommended that the paper be accepted, although they also asked for what amount to be some very minor revisions. The other reviewer recommended major revisions, but they are all that can be taken care of with some further literature review and adjustments to the text. In particular, as suggested by one reviewer, I think that it would be worthwhile to explore the degree of polyandry in the various species as this could add further value to this paper. The other reviewer also touches on this when they say: "Authors should explain how the species were categorized as monandrous or polyandrous." As neither reviewer is asking for more field or lab work, and since the reviews are both generally positive (or at least are not negative) in terms of the rigor of this study, I am recommending acceptance with minor revisions. Please also note the slight typo in one reviewer's recommendations. Instead of "(f)igures 4 and 4 could be combined into one single figure..." the sentence should read "(f)igures 3 and 4 could be combined into one single figure..." Please also keep in mind that PeerJ recommends open peer review. It would be great if you would release the peer reviews and your rebuttal to appear alongside the MS. This is useful for readers and can also be instructive for students who are learning the ropes of scientific publishing.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 17, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper adheres to all of Peer J policies
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is satisfactory. However, as I state in my review, I would welcome more information about the degree of polyandry among polyandrous species, rather than dichotomizing species into either "polyandrous" or "monandrous" - by doing this more detailed analysis of Sexualla Antagonistic Coevolution would be possible.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In this paper the authors test the hypothesis that spermatophore envelopes (produced by males) coevolves with the structure known as ”signa” in the female reproductive tract (a structure that ruptures the envelope of the spermatophore transferred by the male to the female during copulation). The idea is a straightforward example of potential Sexually Antagonistic Coevolution (SAC); males that have successfully mated with a female benefit from delaying female remating (by prolonging the time it takes for a female to rupture the envelope of the spermatophore), and females benefit from being able to rupture the envelope of the spermatophore as quickly as possible to be able to remate. Hence one prediction from the SAC hypothesis is that the spermatophore envelope should be thicker in polyandrous species with signa than in monandrous species without signa. This prediction is shown conclusively to hold by the empirical data provided in this paper. The authors also derive a second prediction from the SAC hypothesis in this paper – that the spermatophore envelope in monandrous species WITH signa should be thicker than in polyandrous species with signa. This prediction is based on the hypothesis that, in these species, the ”battle of the sexes” has been won by the males, and that female monandry in these species is enforced by the males. I have problems with accepting this conclusion without other supporting evidence, and, moreover, this prediction is supported in only two of three comparisons, which cannot be regarded as strong support for the prediction itself. Nonetheless the paper is written as if the data support the prediction without any substantial discussion. This is unsatisfactory. I also would welcome more information on the degree of monandry/polyandry in the heliconiid butterflies analysed in this paper. Dichotomising species as monandrous or polyandrous is not very satisfactory, and, moreover, by providing more detailed data on the degree of polyandry the authors would be able to test yet an additional prediction from the SAC hypothesis – that the envelope of the spermatophore would increase with the degree of polyandry. Although I like the approach and work that is presented in this paper I think that the authors need to discuss their results in a more ”relaxed” manner, as it now stands I they interpret all their results as supporting their predictions, an interpretation that invites more scepticism in the reader’s mind than convinction.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
As I state above, I find the paper interesting, but it must be written in a way that consider both in what way the data support their predictions and in what way they do not. The way the paper is now written the authors enthusiastically write as if all of their findings support their predictions, and I think that they need to "problematize" their findings more Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Sexual coevolution of spermatophore envelopes and female genital traits in butterflies: Evidence of male coercion? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.247v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 6, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Figure 1 is very simple and it is not needed given the clear explanation provided in the text. Figure 2 shows data published elsewhere and may not be needed. Figures 4 and 4 could be combined into one single figure, with points paired as in the statistical analyses performed. This would help the readers compare the entire range of variation across the sampled Heliconiinae species.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Authors should explain how the species were categorized as monandrous or polyandrous. Heliconius erato was not sampled. Why?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Although chemical analyses have never been performed, males of all Heliconiinae examined have the potential to deliver anti-aphrodisiac to the females (and all females have stink clubs). This should be discussed in more detail given that it is relevant to the results and conclusions.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The data is interesting and well presented. The text is very clearly written. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Sexual coevolution of spermatophore envelopes and female genital traits in butterflies: Evidence of male coercion? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.247v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 27, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
