Review History for Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) require increased dietary levels of B-vitamins when fed diets with high inclusion of plant based ingredients [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Atlantic salmon ( Salmo salar ) require increased dietary levels of B-vitamins when fed diets with high inclusion of plant based ingredients To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 15th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 25th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on August 25th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 26th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Aug 26, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you very much for improving your manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 25, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Jul 25, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Your manuscript should be modified according to the suggestions given.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 13, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The overall presentation of this manuscript is very good in written. the paper provide sufficient rationale to address the hypothesis and objective of the study.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
the experimental design clearly defined the research question and hypothesis. Data collection were well controlled and the methods were well described. However some minor revision are required as suggested in the text
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data of this manuscript was statistically sound and well controlled. The authors have developed a good interpretation on the parameters measured in this study and thus the conclusions are convincing.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This manuscript presents an important research addressing one of the issues challenging aquatic feed production when plant ingredients are used to replace fishmeal. The overall presentation is very good in quality. The data collection shows good support to the conclusions. There are some minor comments and suggestions need to be considered for a correction. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) require increased dietary levels of B-vitamins when fed diets with high inclusion of plant based ingredients (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2493v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Frederic Barrows ·
Jul 19, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a well written manuscript representing a tremendous amount of work. I understand the concept of presenting the two trials in one paper, but the format of mixing each study into the same sections was a little confusing. The authors have a firm control of the literature and presented the case for the trials well.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This research adds important information to the literature for the development of alternative feeds for salmon. The explanation of why to evaluate vitamins, amino acids and cholesterol is understood, but would a better approach have been to evaluate these nutrient classes separately? The methods are well described. It was stated that dwarf males were eliminated from the samples, but was an analysis of the effect of diet on the number of dwarf males done before the elimination?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The regression curves for the vitamins are very clear. Why was a multiple range test used for the performance data instead of regression curves? With the approach of changing so many nutrients at the same time, a discussion of changing levels of one nutrient and its effect on fish growth or metabolism is highly confounded. The authors did appear to be careful to not to overstate cause and effect with language like “might have contributed to lower growth…..”, but I think acknowledging this confounding factor in the experimental design would be beneficial for the readers.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Line 90; NRC 2011? Line 141; Font change Line 151; Skretting ARC, is this a diet formula or a location? Line 398; histidin Figure 2; Tiamine = Thiamin? Cite this review as
Barrows F ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) require increased dietary levels of B-vitamins when fed diets with high inclusion of plant based ingredients (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2493v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 15, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
