Review History for Hawksbill × loggerhead sea turtle hybrids at Bahia, Brazil: where do their offspring go? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Hawksbill × loggerhead sea turtle hybrids at Bahia, Brazil: where do their offspring go? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 19th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 6th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on January 9th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 11th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
John Bruno
·
Jan 11, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The paper looks great. Thank you for making the suggested edits. Congratulations on the work and thanks for choosing PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 9, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
John Bruno
·
Jan 6, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers liked the science and manuscript. They made a few minor suggestions that could improve it. Could you consider each, make the changes you feel are warranted and explain why (if true) you think a given recommendation is not appropriate.
label_author_1
Brian Bowen ·
Jan 4, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Overall the manuscript is in a high state of readiness and conforms to reporting requirements. Figures are justified and helpful. The text is tight and conforms to scientific economy. Typos are few: 206 weather should be whether. 314 Island should be capitalized. 333 K a. should be KA 341 Longline 343 Hawksbill
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is appropriate. Notably these specimens are very difficult to obtain, and the authors deserve credit for the sampling design. The genetics is conducted correctly and effectively. I am not qualified to evaluate the biophysical modeling, but it does seem pertinent, indicating that seasonal currents may push hybrids into southern feeding areas. One gap: How were tissue specimens taken from live captures?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This paper addresses an interesting phenomenon, the high rate of hybridization among sea turtles in Bahia, Brazil. The report is based on 157 juveniles, putative hawksbills, sampled along the Brazilian coast and offshore islands. While 42% of nesting hawksbills may have hybrid hawksbill/loggerhead origin, the survey only turned up 4 hybrid juveniles, none at the main feeding aggregates for hawksbills. Three of the four were in temperate waters, notably dead strandings, in habitat typical of the more temperate feeding loggerhead. At my first impression, I thought the theme of hybrids was inappropriate, based on N = 4. However, the Discussion makes a good case that this is a strange finding that could indicate maladaptive behaviors. If the survivorship and behavior of hybrids is the same as pure hawksbills, the survey should have detected about 60 hybrids (out of 157), and so they are significantly below expected abundance. The paper doesn’t answer the question posed in the title, but it documents that this is a compelling question. The paper discovers an interesting phenomenon that is likely to influence research priorities in coming years.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Congratulations to authors on an interesting report. Cite this review as
Bowen B ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Hawksbill × loggerhead sea turtle hybrids at Bahia, Brazil: where do their offspring go? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.255v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 27, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Pass.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Pass.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Pass.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
My only hesitation is that it would be nice if additional years could be simulated to capture annual variation in ocean circulation that will influence the proportion of particles moving to the north or south. However, not all published studies have been so robust (e.g., http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00227-011-1712-9 ), so the authors can choose whether they want to or not. I would also include more explicit mention (in the discussion) of the possibility that sea turtle swimming behavior could influence predicted results. You already have two papers cited (Putman et al. 2012; 2014) that you could use to support this idea. If for instance, loggerheads typically swim to the south, whereas hawksbills typically swim to the north this could further increase the difference in distribution between hawksbills and hybrids. Regardless, it is very interesting that you see some differences in distribution based on time of hatchling emergence. The combination of genetics, morphology, and modeling make this a really neat study! I look forward to seeing it published (and citing it!). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Hawksbill × loggerhead sea turtle hybrids at Bahia, Brazil: where do their offspring go? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.255v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 19, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
