Review History for Environmental and spatial drivers of taxonomic, functional, and phylogenetic characteristics of bat communities in human-modified landscapes [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Environmental and spatial drivers of taxonomic, functional, and phylogenetic characteristics of bat communities in human-modified landscapes To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 5th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 19th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on September 8th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 12th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Karen Esler
·
Sep 12, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
It is clear that you have made a significant effort to clarify the complexity, and I am satisfied with your response to the methodological questions raised.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 8, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Karen Esler
·
Nov 19, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
In particular, please focus on the issues raised by reviewer 2 under "validity of the findings". These issues must be clarified and addressed in the manuscript. With regard to Reviewer 1's concerns, please play special attention to style and use of language and minimise jargon (or at least explain it well) so a broader audience can be reached.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 25, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In this ms the authors used variation partitioning to explore the relative effects of spatial and environmental processes on taxonomic, functional, and phylogenetic structure of bat assemblages. The study examined a bat community in N Costa Rica that was sampled by mistnetting. The main conclusion is that landscape has a significant influence on assemblage structure, accounting for much of the variation in phylogenetic or functional dispersion. Although I am a bat ecologist, I have not a strong background on this kind of analysis, so my assessment may well be biased by my limited knowledge of this specific subject. As far as I can appreciate from the ms, the methodology employed appears rigorous and the results sound and discussed appropriately. My main concern is the overly technical narrative adopted, which I am afraid many in the journal’s readership will find quite difficult to fully comprehend, making the results themselves difficult to judge. This is all the more important since Peer J is a generalist journal tackling a very broad audience. Overall, my main suggestion is that the authors re-examine carefully the text making it simpler and easier to read, paying special attention to “translating” technical jargon into clear information when possible. Clarity is the first quality for any scientific articles: as authors, our main objective should be to convey an effective message. From this perspective I am convinced that this ms may be improved further and will need major revisions before it reads sufficiently well to deserve publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Environmental and spatial drivers of taxonomic, functional, and phylogenetic characteristics of bat communities in human-modified landscapes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2551v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 18, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Please include in the methods a section where you state whether abundancnes were considered in all dimensions of biodiversity, or was it only considered in taxonomic structure? L192- 195. Did the authors look into variable selection for funcional traits? It would be useful just to make sure there is no redundancy amongst those variables, and thus inflating type I error. L208-209 - please explain in more detail how the environmental gradient may affect particular niche axes differently L212-213 - Is weighting each niche axes equally is the best approach? is there a weight them based on importance? maybe PCA or variable selection?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I m a bit weary of the findings for phylogenetic and functional structure. Particularly of most variation being explained by the shared fraction. Can´t that reflect just the inherent spatial autocorrelation present in environmental gradients? Maybe address this in the discussion L358-365 - it is not clear to me why do rare species drive patterns in functional and phylogenetic composition but for taxonomic structure its the abundant species? L391-394 - I wonder if the differences amongst dimensions of biodiversity is related to the fact that taxonomic structure is being represented as a community structure, but phylogenetic and functional is represented as dispersion? Maybe address this issue in the discussion
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Good introduction. Very complete and gets up to date with what the state of the knowledge in community assembly is related to using different dimensions of biodiversity. The methods and data used are solid and there is no concerns over their validity to address the questions posed in the introduction. Results are clear and figures are a good representation of these results. There a re a few concerns regarding the differences in data structure for taxonomic, funcional and phylogenetic dimensions that I recommend to be addressed in the discussion. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Environmental and spatial drivers of taxonomic, functional, and phylogenetic characteristics of bat communities in human-modified landscapes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2551v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 5, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
