Review History for A retrospective study detects a novel variant of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus in England in archived material from the year 2000 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A retrospective study detects a novel variant of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus in England in archived material from the year 2000 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 11th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 9th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on September 7th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 14th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Peirong Jiao
·
Sep 14, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Jean-Pierre,thank you for your submission. Your revised manusript has been accepted.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 7, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Peirong Jiao
·
Aug 9, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Jean-Pierre, please revise your manuscript according to the reviewers' advice.
label_author_1
Qigai He ·
Jul 25, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Porcine epidemic diarrhea (PED), caused by Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) ,is an emergently and economically important pig disease that attracts attention of the scientists worldwide. The PED history in each country is different. The authors detected a variant PEDV in three samples from finishing fecal samples by RT-PCR followed by sequencing and phylogentic analysis. Their findings supported that PEDV existed two years earlier than the report of outbreak in 2002, and that the England-2000 strain was diverse from CV777 and other PEDV strains in some EU countries. This conclusion was of scientific importance. The accession number of the genome sequence indicated it met requirements of Data Sharing Policy.The manuscript was well written and the figure was strongly related with the experiment and the conclusion.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors used the archieved samples for detection of PEDV by RT-PCR, the whole genome sequence was analyzed and compared with other PEDVs. The methodology sounds reasonable. The retrospective study is rational.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The major findings in this experiment were the presence of a PEDV, England-2000, in the samples collected in 2000 and were different from other strains. These conclusions were based on their PCR amplifications and sequence analysis and supported their primary hypothesis. The results can be reproducible if the samples are privided to other persons.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The detection of a variant PEDV from the samples collected in the year of 2000 by authors updates the PED history in England and it is of scientifc significance. However, in the point of a acceptable manuscript,I would like to suggest the authors to further provide the following information in their revised manuscript. (1) Are there any epidemiological links between 13 PED cases in nine units if the authors happened to have these data (Line 51 to Line 52); (2) the primer pairs sequence in duplex RT-PCR and whether the fragement,S1, or the full S gene was amplified (Line 56). (3) Explain whether the "immunity" (Line 113) were acquired from vaccination or from any other measurements. If vaccination, then what kind of vaccine strain was used. Cite this review as
He Q ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "A retrospective study detects a novel variant of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus in England in archived material from the year 2000 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2564v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Soren Alexandersen ·
Aug 4, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Appears to meet standards
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Appears to meet standards although a more detailed description of the robustness of the single sequence obtained by NGS and a more thorough analysis of the sequence obtained would strengthen the work.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Appears to meet standards although a more detailed description of the robustness of the single sequence obtained by NGS and a more thorough analysis of the sequence obtained would strengthen the work.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
A more detailed description of the robustness of the single sequence obtained by NGS and a more thorough analysis of the sequence obtained would strengthen the work. Suggest to do more phylogenies using nucleotide and amino acid alignments of more conserved regions, e.g. the ORF1a/b rather than only showing the phylogeny based on the Spike protein. Did they do any analysis to see whether recombination may play a role? The manuscript contains inconsistent and often incorrect use of Capital letters when writing e.g. porcine epidemic diarrhea virus or coronavirus etc. In the introduction the authors write that markers for pathogenicity are poorly defined and then go on to say that thus any molecular characterisation is best carried out by full genome analysis. Why that is the case is not clear as even the full sequence will not reveal unknown markers of pathogenicity and moreover, the authors do only include a very limited analysis of their full sequence and thus do not provide any compelling evidence for why their NGS approach is optimal or needed. In the discussion the authors state that the presence of a diverse strain of PEDV in England around the turn of the century, "for which the potential impact on immunogenicity and control requires further study". Why this further study is required is not clear to this reviewer although it is clear that more analysis of historical/archived samples are clearly called for. Cite this review as
Alexandersen S ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "A retrospective study detects a novel variant of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus in England in archived material from the year 2000 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2564v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 11, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
