Review History for Boundary curves of individual items in the distribution of total depressive symptom scores approximate an exponential pattern in a general population [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Boundary curves of individual items in the distribution of total depressive symptom scores approximate an exponential pattern in a general population To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 7th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 19th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on August 27th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 14th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Lucy Troup
·
Sep 14, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your responses to the reviewers and addressing the comments. I believe it has created a stronger manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 27, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Lucy Troup
·
Jul 19, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Thank you for your interesting paper. The reviewers have raised several issues, which I concur need addressing and the manuscript would benefit significantly from the following being addressed. A deeper statistical analysis and justification for results would be helpful. In particular comparisons to other models that support the justification for this particular model. Directly addressing quantitatively, statistically, the model fit rather than qualitatively doing so would strengthen the paper. Therefore, a major revision is required with clarification and support of the model and comparisons to other models is needed.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 13, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article adheres to these standards. Melzer reference is missing.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
There should be more done to define and describe the role of boundary curve lines and their relevance to the current project. For example-how are the curves calculated? What distribution shape is expected -there is a phrase referencing the normal dist, but is this reasonable given the skewed distribution of the scale to begin with? How are the slopes assessed or compared? There are no statistics to support the similarity or difference of the log normal curves (e.g. lines 230-233). Why compare adjacent items?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Statistical comparisons for generalizability of the curve fit and/or curve differences are needed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I think the manuscript would benefit from summarizing the general trend noted here and then clarifying that it persists across items and clusters; it streamlines the results. It could also be beneficial to emphasis the utility and value in the curve estimates or other curve/sub-score clusters Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Boundary curves of individual items in the distribution of total depressive symptom scores approximate an exponential pattern in a general population (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2566v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 18, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article needs some minor editing, in general it is well written but it will need to be carefully edited - there are several instances of single sentence paragraphs, and run-on sentences.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The study is an analysis of archival data from a large data set. The analysis is appropriate, however, it's not entirely clear what the authors are trying accomplish with this study - nor is there any aprori hypothesis clear aside from they expect there to be a mathematical relationship.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data analysis and model fitting are well done and valid, however, the authors need to take this paper to the next stop and clearly show how this result can be useful. The authors also need to test to determine if this is the best model - they describe a model that fits, but do not test alternative models to determine if theirs is the best fitting model. It may be that there is a better description of the data. They also have only described in qualitative terms how their data exhibit a mathematical pattern, they have not directly tested whether this pattern fits or not, merely described the pattern. Some 'goodness of fit' analysis would be appropriate here.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
You have some interesting data and I think having the data available could be useful, however, you should quantify how closely your data resembles the mathematical functions and also determine if it is the best fit. Finally, spend some time explaining what the utility of this finding is. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Boundary curves of individual items in the distribution of total depressive symptom scores approximate an exponential pattern in a general population (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2566v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 7, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
