Review History for The impact of IL-6 and IL-28B gene polymorphisms on treatment outcome of chronic hepatitis C infection among intravenous drug users in Croatia [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The impact of IL-6 and IL-28B gene polymorphisms on treatment outcome of chronic hepatitis C infection among intravenous drug users in Croatia To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 9th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 29th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on September 15th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 15th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Krystyna Dabrowska
·
Sep 15, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Ana, Thank you for your submission to PeerJ. Your manuscript has been accepted for publication. Congratulations! Krystyna Dabrowska
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 15, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Krystyna Dabrowska
·
Jun 29, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
In my opinion the crucial improvement that needs to be done in this study is the increase of the number of patients when presenting gene polymorphism-related conclusions. This was also pointed out by the reviewer. I hope you will find all the recommendations helpful.
label_author_1
Ahmed Wahid ·
Jun 6, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Zoran Bogdanovic´ and colleagues investigated the possible influence of the suggested IL-6 and Il-28 genetic biomarkers on the progression of HCV disease in crotaian patients in the study entitled “The impact of IL-6 and IL-28B gene polymorphisms on treatment outcome of chronic hepatitis C infection among intravenous drug users in Croatia”. The authors discovered that Patients showed a significantly better response to treatment according to the number of copies of the C allele carried at rs1800795-IL6. I appreciate the time and effort put to this study by the authors; however there is one major concern about this study which is that the number of patients used in this study is a bit small to draw solid conclusions out of the study. Therefore, I recommend increasing the number of patients to at least 150-200 patients. -Minor issues: include an agarose gel picture for the IL-28 gene.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
the study design is ok.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comments Cite this review as
Wahid A ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The impact of IL-6 and IL-28B gene polymorphisms on treatment outcome of chronic hepatitis C infection among intravenous drug users in Croatia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2576v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Luísa Hoffmann ·
Jun 29, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Introduce treatment options in "Introduction". Patients in this work used standard therapy based in pegylated interferon and ribavirin. However, new direct acting antivirals (DAAs) were introduced to hepatitis C therapy and must to be cited. More references must to be included in some specific parts (there are notes on "track changes" .doc file).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Describe response type classification on "Methods". Comment if relapser patients were included in non-responder group.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This article is relevant even though another groups reported these SNPs association. The article is well writen but must to be revised. Most important points are highlighted in the attached file. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Hoffmann L ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "The impact of IL-6 and IL-28B gene polymorphisms on treatment outcome of chronic hepatitis C infection among intravenous drug users in Croatia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2576v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 9, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
