Review History for The rediscovery and redescription of the holotype of the Late Jurassic turtle Plesiochelys etalloni [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The rediscovery and redescription of the holotype of the Late Jurassic turtle Plesiochelys etalloni To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 19th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 7th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on January 13th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 13th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Andrew Farke
·
Jan 13, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your detailed attention to the comments from the reviewers. I noted one minor grammatical correction, which can be addressed in the proofs: p. 18, "The above description indicates that the shell of MH 435 does not significantly differs from that of MAJ 2005-11-1." should have have "differ" instead of "differs".
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 13, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Andrew Farke
·
Jan 7, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers' comments are generally reasonable and appropriate, and should be incorporated (or rebutted in your response letter) wherever possible. Please note that many of the suggestions are provided in PDFs available via the PeerJ author submission portal. My only minor annotation to the reviewers' comments is that use of the term "steinkern" is acceptable (see comment from Reviewer 1), as it is a common technical term. Finally, because you include some digital surface scans in the images, you may wish to include a short note on the methods used to produce these. If you deem fit (strictly optional), it also might be nice to include a downloadable copy of the scan data (depending upon museum policies, etc.), or at the least indicate where the data are archived so that other researchers might be able to access the scans in the future.
label_author_1
Adán Pérez García ·
Jan 7, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In my opinion, the manuscript of Anquetin et al. is interesting and well-written. However, I have included some comments and suggestions on the pdf version. I'm available to the editor and authors for any possible doubt.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The developed methodology and research are suitable for this type of papers.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data and conclusions are appropriate. I suggest changing the diagnosis and include comparisons in the discussion, as I indicated in the pdf version.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
See the pdf Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Pérez García A ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "The rediscovery and redescription of the holotype of the Late Jurassic turtle Plesiochelys etalloni (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.258v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Walter Joyce ·
Jan 7, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
see attached PDF
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a great manuscript in which the authors re-describe an important, but long-lost holotype of a historic fossil turtle. The figures are great, the description sufficient, and the discussion highly balanced and insightful. I only have some extremely minor comments that I added as sticky notes to the PDF. The authors are welcome to address these points at their own discretion. Two quick points: 1) the citation style is a little uneven, in particular in regards to the use of "et al." Please fix throughout the manuscript. 2) All letters with diacritics appear with a strange font in the PDF. I presume this is not the fault of the authors, but rather an artifact created by an anglocentric journal. Please be sure that this is fixed in the production phase of the paper. In conclusion, I overall agree with all major points presented in this paper, only have minor suggestions, and greatly recommend this for publication in PeerJ. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Joyce WG ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "The rediscovery and redescription of the holotype of the Late Jurassic turtle Plesiochelys etalloni (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.258v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 19, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
