Review History for VSEARCH: a versatile open source tool for metagenomics [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History VSEARCH: a versatile open source tool for metagenomics To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 5th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 19th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.1 (accepted)
Tomas Hrbek
·
Sep 19, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Authors, Thank you for submitting a fine MS to PeerJ. Both of the referees suggested accept with minor revision. Based on the reading of your paper, I also recommend accept, but I would like you to implement the corrections/suggestions of both reviewers. Also agreeing with Deren Eaton, your software has much broader applicability than metagenomics, and givens its open nature is likely to be used even more outside this field. So it is worth mentioning this in your MS. Congratulations on a an excellent piece of software. Sincerely, Tomas Hrbek
label_author_1
Thulani Makhalanyane ·
Sep 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I really enjoyed reading this ms. The ms is very clearly written, with only minor edits suggested.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors should be congratulated on a very well designed program, which will be very valuable to the community. The validation is robust and I really can't find a major fault. I am really impressed with some of the new features e.g. format detection, filtering etc. The FASTQ file format conversion is especially welcome and overcomes a primary USEARCH issue related to FASTA files.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The methods are robust and very sound.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I wish to thank the authors for this ms. I think the program is impressive and will be really valuable to the community. There are really (very) minor language issues. L253: to recreate datasets AS... L271: SRC number? remove IS L285: Italicise "fast_convert" L340: version 7 have ... Cite this review as
Makhalanyane TP ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "VSEARCH: a versatile open source tool for metagenomics (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2584v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Deren Eaton ·
Sep 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript “VSEARCH: a versatile open source tool for metagenomics” by Rognes et al. introduces new software for analysis of genomic data that is freely available and distributed open source. It was developed as a drop-in replacement for the commonly used software usearch, which is and has been closed source. By making their software freely available and open-source the authors have exposed and clearly described the algorithms and underlying processes that are inherent in the computational functions of usearch which hundreds of biologists have been using for many years now. This is a major development that is of great benefit to the computational and bioinformatics community. The manuscript appears to adhere to all PeerJ policies, it is clearly written, the analyses are rigorous, and the results are well explained.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The analyses are rigorous and well explained. All scripts and data to reproduce analyses are available online.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The number of tests that could be performed to compare vsearch and usearch is of course too great for the authors to be exhaustive. They do a good job of providing common use cases on typical data sets, and they compare accuracy and speed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Below are some additional questions or recommendations: In the section Performance enhancement the version number of usearch7 and usearch8 is given but it is not clear whether the freely available 32-bit version is being used, or the paid 64-bit version. Whichever one was used, the author's should add a sentence about how the analysis comparison results would vary if the other version (32 or 64-bit) were used instead. Line 208: Provide reference for "simple center-star sequence alignment" Line 396: I understand that the authors use the name for the command argument "cluster_smallmem" to maintain compatibility with usearch, but the name seems to be a misnomer, as I believe it just means that the sequences are in whatever order the user supplies. Perhaps you could add "(custom order)" after the command to make it clear that the argument name itself is not necessarily meaning what it looks like. Line 398: Add a short description of what the "Rand Index" is, and what "recall" is measuring, etc. Figure 4: The clustering comparison does not use the "fulldp" option even though the authors explain that their implementation of this is better than that of usearch. I believe the vsearch implementation using fulldp is much faster, if I remember right (I use it in my own research). That would contradict the general statement that usearch is 2-3 times faster than vsearch at clustering (line 409). On a related note, the authors describe their software in the title and introduction as being focused on metagenomics and microbiome research, but usearch/vsearch are in fact used commomly outside of this scope as well, such as for filtering, merging, and de novo clustering of short read sequences for population genetic and phylogenetic analyses of known sampled species (non-meta-sampling). Examples include the pyrad & ipyrad software which uses vsearch to identify homology within and between species of anonymous RAD-seq data. I'm not requesting that the authors cite any particular software, but it may be worth mentioning in the introduction that vsearch has many applications outside of metagenomics. Line 442: Provide reference or link for Greengenes and SILVA Cite this review as
Eaton D ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "VSEARCH: a versatile open source tool for metagenomics (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2584v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 5, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
