Review History for Production of cytotoxic compounds in dedifferentiated cells of Jatropha curcas L. (Euphorbiaceae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Production of cytotoxic compounds in dedifferentiated cells of Jatropha curcas L. (Euphorbiaceae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 29th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 29th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on September 15th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 27th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
David Day
·
Sep 27, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All minor revisions have been made
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 15, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Day
·
May 29, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
It is important that all of the suggested minor amendments to the manuscript are made, especially to english language, and the additional statistical analysis and experimental detail are provided. It is also imperative that the journal format for references and abstract are adhered to.
label_author_1
Bradley Simpson ·
May 10, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Abstract does not adhere to journal guidelines, requires headings, refer to ‘standard sections’ of author guidelines Please review unnecessary use of colon(:) and semi-colon (;) throughout manuscript. Please confirm that units are expressed as per journal requirements, for example g/mL not g<U+F09F>mL-1. Please address reference list section for adherence to journal format for references, eg. no brackets around publication date, journal names in full (not abbreviated), DOI if known. Manuscript requires editing by a professional proficient in English to correct sentence structure.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Methods: Please include a reference or protocol used for preparing sulphuric anisaldehyde thin layer chromatography reagent.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are presented logically with proper statistical analyses. Statistical analysis: samples being compared needs to be clarified, appears to be an overuse of subscript letters denoting (in)differences. Although the original hypothesis was to produce biologically active compounds using callogenesis, the authors have justified appropriately why this was not achieved. The reporting of negative results are of great value to the broader scientific community.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Specific comments: Line 42: Possibly substitute the word ‘powerful’ to ‘potent’. Line 50: Sentence restructuring required. For example “Furthermore, a variety of compounds with different biological activities have been isolated from species belonging to the genus Jatropha”. Line 78: …dried at 60°C for 48 h…… Line 101: MeOH, not MetOH and throughout manuscript. Line 115: ‘combined’ not ‘blended’ Line 136: A reference to a compound in brackets (1) is made but there is no structure in the manuscript except as an insert to Figure 3(B). Is this structure (1)? If so please make note of this in figure legend. Line 163: Please state the yield of the hexane extracts from roots. Line 232, 235, 236: Keep molar concentration units consistent, for example 6.78 x 10 -6 M should be 6.78 µM etc Discussion: It could be worth noting that although then callus did not give rise to the desirable compounds of interest, that this approach could be used towards providing large quantities of a particular starting material. Table 4: Jatropholone b spelt wrong (take out repeated ‘tro’) Cite this review as
Simpson B ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Production of cytotoxic compounds in dedifferentiated cells of Jatropha curcas L. (Euphorbiaceae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2616v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Wei Zhang ·
May 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
1. Minor English language revisions are required as indicated in the PDF. 2. Identification of the stilbene-like compounds will improve the completeness of this publication as this is the major finding in cell culture. 3. References format are not always consistent, should be checked carefully to comply to the Journal requirements.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The objectives of this study were a) to establish a procedure for obtaining friable and fast growing calluses, and b) to evaluate the production of cytotoxic compounds in J. curcas dedifferentiated cells. While both objectives are achieved, however the experimental design could be improved as below 1. It has only investigated the callus induction process where the callus was induced and grew well. This is not relevant for the callus been subcultured in the same induction media or indeed very often different media. It is probably more meaningful to investigate the growth of the callus in stable subculture ; 2. In the same context, it is better to investigate the production of cytotoxic compounds in dedifferentiated cells during stable subculture, not in the stage of callus induction.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data is generally robust and statistically sound, and the conclusions are justified. As stated above, it may be improved by looking into the callus during subcultures where the production of any secondary bioactive compounds would be more meaningful as the callus line would be more stable.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Well-written paper, with some interesting data while not conclusive. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Zhang W ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Production of cytotoxic compounds in dedifferentiated cells of Jatropha curcas L. (Euphorbiaceae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2616v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 29, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
