Review History for Proliferation of group II introns in the chloroplast genome of the green alga Oedocladium carolinianum (Chlorophyceae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Proliferation of group II introns in the chloroplast genome of the green alga Oedocladium carolinianum (Chlorophyceae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 18th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 30th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on September 26th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 29th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Gerard Lazo
·
Sep 29, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your latest revision addressed most succinctly the criticisms from the reviewers and helped to address some of the earlier concerns. This version of the manuscript stands well as a reflection on the updated assessment of genome sequence with respect to new and known data. You have provided a good case for your attempt to decipher and add hypotheses for the colonization of introns into new genomic sites. I agree that your conclusions are solid and contribute to the advancement of the research area. I hope this will suit the timing of other publications in the works. Congratulations on a fine manuscript which will be moved forward in the publication process.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 26, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Gerard Lazo
·
Aug 30, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Overall, the manuscript reads very well; however, I was a bit concerned that a major portion of the content appears to have been presented in a previous publication. I would pay close attention to what is actually new in this manuscript when compared to the prior publication. Is the content presented here substantially new in comparison to the prior publication? One reviewer contends that it may not. Perhaps a more detailed analysis of what is available or a more detailed comparison with the other species is called for. A rebuttal will need to include expanded reasoning on what is new here, or consider adding additional information to expand the new impacts of the manuscript. I will side with the “major revision” suggestion in that the manuscript needs to distance itself more in content with respect to the prior publication.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 13, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript by Brouard et al. reports the proliferation group IIA introns in the Viridiplantae, and assumes that intron dispersal likely occurred by retrohoming. I have some comments listed below. 1.From the title of the manuscript, it said “Proliferation of group II introns…..”, but in the main text, the authors mainly investigated the proliferation of group IIA introns. So what are the characteristics of group IIB introns of Oedogonium? 2.On page 8, line 140: Why choosing “consecutive 100-bp segments” to identify gene sequences? 3.On page 9, line 175: Please provide the details about using “intron secondary structures” to align the intron sequences, such as the programs, paramaters. 4.On page 11, line 216: To calculate the evolutionary distance between two species (e.g. Oedogonium, Oedocladium), the authors simply sum up the number of nonsynonymous and synonymous nucleotide substitutions of both species as the distance. I am not sure whether it is the valid measurement. Could the authors provide some references to support it? 5.On page 17, line 344: There are two “Oedogonium”, please correct it. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Proliferation of group II introns in the chloroplast genome of the green alga Oedocladium carolinianum (Chlorophyceae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2627v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Multiple references not organized chronologically. Introduction is VERY general and lacks details and structure. Authors cite 13 papers after one single sentence. I would like to see this part of introduction developed better. I also would advise not to use words like “bloated, boast etc.”. Section on IR (and SC) seems to be critical to proper understanding of publication and should consist more details as separate paragraph/s.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I found very similar paper by the same four authors from 2008 (Chloroplast DNA sequence of the green alga Oedogonium cardiacum (Chlorophyceae): Unique genome architecture, derived characters shared with the Chaetophorales and novel genes acquired through horizontal transfer. BMC Genomics). Both papers have very similar methods, analysis and results. Please compare both Figure 1 (both papers), Table 1 (both papers) , Figure 3 (both papers) and Figure 4 (in 2008 paper) vs. Figure 5 (in current submission). I understand that discussion of both paper focuses in slightly different aspects of genome evolution of mentioned species however I do not think that presented data significantly improves body of knowledge. Main difference is addition of two more genomic sequences and focus of paper toward group II introns (also mentioned in paper from 2008). Also authors claim in current paper that: "Our report is the first providing evidence for intergenomic proliferation of IIA introns in the Viridiplantae", where in paper from 2008 they state: "The intergenic spacers account for 22.6% of the total genome sequence and vary from 22 to 1721 bp, for an average size of 370 bp. This is the lowest proportion and smallest average size of intergenic spacers observed thus far for the chloroplast genome of a photosynthetic chlorophyte belonging to the Ulvophyceae, Trebouxiophyceae or Chlorophyceae (UTC)" In my opinion conclusion about intergenomic/intergenomic proliferation of IIA introns in Viridiplantae could be made based on data provided in Paper from 2008.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Proliferation of group II introns in the chloroplast genome of the green alga Oedocladium carolinianum (Chlorophyceae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2627v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 18, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
