Review History for Alcohol consumption and risk of fatty liver disease: a meta-analysis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Alcohol consumption and risk of fatty liver disease: a meta-analysis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 9th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 12th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on September 26th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 30th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Bob Patton
·
Sep 30, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your submission. You have addressed all of the reviewers concerns and I am pleased to inform you that your paper is now accepted for publication. On several occasions you use the term "unsettled" when referring to the effect of heavy alcohol consumption - for clarity I suggest that you change this to " remain unclear" when uploading your final documents
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 26, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Bob Patton
·
Sep 12, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for your submission. Please address the concerns of the reviewers, it is suggested that you include some further discussion around the limitations of the small sample sizes for specific groups and that you soften the language of your conclusions regarding the "significant predictive effect" to be limited to the specific populations studied. They have also noted a number of typographical and grammatical errors. The manuscript should be proof read prior to re-submission.
label_author_1
Masahide Hamaguchi ·
Aug 23, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Good.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Good.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
23 Aug 2016 Comments to the Author GuoLi Cao et al. performed a systemic review, in which authors focused on the relationship among alcohol consumption and fatty liver disease. This review manuscript encompasses an interesting topic and may be worthwhile publishing, however it needs a minor revision, scientific and stylistic. Major comments: 1.In subgroup analysis, authors concluded that heavy alcohol consumption may not be related to risk of FLD in Japanese women, but may have a significant protective role for FLD in Japanese men and conversely may have a detrimental effect on FLD in Germans. The relationships of heavy alcohol consumption in Japanese and German was inconsistent. The number of study was as small as 6 in Japanese study and only 2 in German study. And, it is difficult to eliminate the effect of co-factors except for alcohol consumption. Thus, the effect of heavy alcohol consumption on FLD has been unsettled. Please reconsider the conclusion of this systemic review. Specific comments: 1.In several sentences, author wrote “sentence no space ( ref)”. Please add space in front of (ref).” Cite this review as
Hamaguchi M ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Alcohol consumption and risk of fatty liver disease: a meta-analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2633v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Adam Riedlinger ·
Sep 12, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Page 2 line 22 - Consider using “obese populations” or “the obese population” in the abstract conclusion for grammatical clarity. Page 4 line 16 -NAFLD is considered by most authors to be the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic syndrome so it may be stated as such. Page 4 line 22 - and even heavier alcohol consumption. Page 4 line 23 -It should be mentioned that these are all suggested mechanisms of protection, but not all necessarily proven Page 9 lines 14-16 - should be revised to add clarity Page 13 line 3 – Cataract formation, the formation of cataracts? Page 13 line 10 – Requires review of grammar. Also, though it is not inevitable, fatty liver itself is recognised to be a consequence of excessive alcohol consumption, rather than just the late stage manifestations of cirrhosis & cancer. Page 13 line 13 – Studied should be studies, should this then also be became rather than become? Page 14 lines 5-10 – Very long run-on sentence that requires additional punctuation for clarity. Should be findings rather than finding. Referencing the same author twice in the sentence should not be necessary. The introduction is clear & provides a good background to show the context within which the review was performed. It may be also mentioned as a limitation that early stages of ALD are often asymptomatic. Therefore can the results of meta-analysis from these studies be effectively broadened so as to represent the population at large? Clarify whether the studies examined were searching for FLD in the population or were these patients already manifesting symptoms? Figures used are relevant & clearly labelled. The raw data was supplied.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question is well defined, and the strategy used to undertake this appears robust. It is made clear what the intent of the authors is in undertaking this meta-analysis. The search strategy was broad enough to capture what I suspect is the vast majority of relevant works, one might ask if “wine” and “beer” were search terms then could “spirits” not have also been relevant? Though this may not necessarily add any further specific results. The methods are described in such a way as to be easily reproducible. The data analysis appears to have been effectively undertaken. It may be of interest to state what informed the definition of the four groups of drinkers by levels of alcohol consumption, given that there may be global variation in these standards. Especially as specific population groups are later identified as being potentially protected by them.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The limitations of the review are stated, and the further questions that it raises are noted. It is accepted that the findings can not necessarily be accepted purely as seen, and that there is a requirement for further study. The conclusion is clear & relates well to the original research question, but the abstract gives the appearance of more concrete claims. I would be loath to use the term “likely to have a significant protective effect on the development of FLD…” as the mechanisms are poorly understood & the studied populations so limited. This may be accepted if this were clarified to be only within the studied populations.
Cite this review as
Riedlinger A ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Alcohol consumption and risk of fatty liver disease: a meta-analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2633v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 9, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
