Review History for Phytogeographic and genetic variation in Sorbus, a traditional antidiabetic medicine—adaptation in action in both a plant and a discipline [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Phytogeographic and genetic variation in Sorbus , a traditional antidiabetic medicine—adaptation in action in both a plant and a discipline To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 11th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 19th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on September 30th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 3rd, 2016. Notes
The authors used an external service, Axios Review , to obtain 3 reviews prior to submission to PeerJ. In light of those reviews, they then submitted to PeerJ along with a rebuttal of the reviews and a revised manuscript. PeerJ verified with Axios Review that the reviews were unaltered and also obtained the identity of the reviewers. The Academic Editor examined the prior reviews and felt they were sufficient to make a first decision without further review. The anonymized external reviews and the authors rebuttals are available as a downloadable file below.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
David Day
·
Oct 3, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The additional citations and text clarifications address my concerns adequately.
External reviews were received for this submission. These reviews were used by the Editor when they made their decision, and can be downloaded below. Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter Download external reviews
- submitted Sep 30, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Day
·
Sep 19, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
This is a very interesting study, using indigenous knowledge of medicinal plants and the known geographical variation in their efficacy to guide measurements of antioxidants and genes encoding enzymes involved in secondary metabolite synthesis. The paper was submitted with prior reviews from Axios. Overall, I think the authors have answered the points raised by those reviewers. Nonetheless, I think further revision is required. In particular, I’m not sure why so much is made of the observed differences between absolute abundance of squalene synthase and flavanol synthase genes unless it is established that transcription accurately predicts protein abundance and enzyme activity. If this information is available for the species examined, then it should be cited. If not, then I think the authors need to measure enzyme activity or, as they point out themselves in line 351, measure phytochemical levels, to justify the detailed discussion and speculation. Without this additional information, the only really valid results are the antioxidant levels, and I’m not sure that is enough.
Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 11, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
