Review History for Performance, usability and comparison of two versions of a new macular vision test: the handheld Radial Shape Discrimination test [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Performance, usability and comparison of two versions of a new macular vision test: the handheld Radial Shape Discrimination test To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 15th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 26th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on September 29th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 3rd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Stephen Macknik
·
Oct 3, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for making the necessary revisions to this study. I am happy to accept the manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 29, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Stephen Macknik
·
Sep 26, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Two reviewers have read your MS and find it acceptable. They offer suggestions for minor revisions, which I hope you will enact and otherwise the manuscript can be Accepted.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 17, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is well-written, clear, and detailed. Minor comments: I’m not following the thought process in lines 54-56 as written: Because the hRSD is easy to use and inexpensive, clinical data is needed? Line 217 “The usability questionnaire demonstrated…” should be “The results of the usability questionnaire demonstrated…” Line 231 There is an extra comma in “handheld, iPod version of the” Table 1 shows percentages, right? Not labelled. Some rows don’t add up to 100 (the first row is < 94), so this is not obvious. Some participants appear to have agreed that the device was easy to use, but did not answer whether or not they understood how to use the device.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No major comments. Minor comment: One methodological factor that might add noise to the results—that participants were not instructed in precisely how to hold the devices—probably mimics how this test would be used in practice. I would be interested to know if participants held the device the same way on retest, and whether failing to do so would dramatically alter their performance. If so, it would be desirable to standardize the instructions for how to hold the iPods are held during testing.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No major comments. Minor comments: The authors state on line 290 that they found no difference in the usability of the two versions, but point to an (admittedly anecdotal) difference on line 278, which they suggest did not play out in their data directly because of the way the experiment was conducted. Specifically, some participants were confused about the positioning of the 3AFC stimuli and the authors clarified the instructions in a way they believe would not be done in a clinical setting. This points to a usability difference.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This was a pleasure to read. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Performance, usability and comparison of two versions of a new macular vision test: the handheld Radial Shape Discrimination test (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2650v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Amirfarbod Yazdanyar ·
Sep 25, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Article has met these basic reporting standards. Figures are relevant to the content of the article. The cited literature is appropriate and supports the body of the research. The article includes sufficient introduction and background.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This study is nicely done to validate data in the largest sample for the 3AFC and 4AFC hRSD thresholds. To this levels, the data and hence conclusion is solid. However, the validity of the approach needs to be tested in a larger population of patients with retinopathy and more specifically macular disease. At this point it is not clear if hRSD is as sensitive or specific for early detection of macular disease (Compared to other diagnostic tests such as Amsler grid, etc... ).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The study is statistically acceptable. And the conclusion is well supplemented with graphs, figures and tables.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Now that the authors established the baseline thresholds for 3AFC and 4AFC hRSD for future studies, I strongly encourage the authors to design a new study and validate the usability and also efficacy of hRSD in patients with visually disabling macular disease. Cite this review as
Yazdanyar A ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Performance, usability and comparison of two versions of a new macular vision test: the handheld Radial Shape Discrimination test (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2650v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 15, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
