Review History for Germination of Acacia harpophylla (Brigalow) seeds in relation to soil water potential: implications for rehabilitation of a threatened ecosystem [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Germination of Acacia harpophylla (Brigalow) seeds in relation to soil water potential: implications for rehabilitation of a threatened ecosystem To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 13th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 3rd, 2013. The first revision was submitted on January 10th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 21st, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Coen Ritsema
·
Jan 21, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The reviewers comments and remarks have been addessed carefully by the authors, and the current version of the manuscript is now acceptable for publication in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 10, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Coen Ritsema
·
Dec 3, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I am pleased to inform you that your paper has been reviewed favourably, indicating that some significant improvements are needed before the paper can be accepted for publication.
label_author_1
Ana Vasques ·
Dec 2, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is written in correct and clear English, having an adequate structure and the background is well explored. The research is relevant and meaningful and has an important advantage of having an experimental setup that allows the estimation of parameters for modelling. Further improvements include the following: The units of water potential used could be changed to MPa (instead of KPa) to improve the potential comparison of the results attained with other current germination studies. The figure indexing should follow the order in which they are mentioned in the text (Results section). The interpretation of the germination percentages attained under the lower water potential tested (-1.5 MPa) in comparison to water potentials present in other parts of the plant should be adjusted (lines 140-143) because seeds can have very low internal water potentials (please see Bewley et al. 2013). Furthermore, these interpretations should be left for the discussion section, being excluded from the result section (lines 115 and 116).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The objectives should be clarified through a more specific research question/hypothesis. To further clarify the hypothesis underlying this study I suggest that the expected germination response under polyethylene and saline solutions (addressed in the discussion section) is also addressed in the objectives of the study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The implications of the present findings for the practice of rehabilitation of post-mining areas should be further explored including the discussion of the use of seed priming in germination enhancement. Other aspects for the improvement of germination predictions, such as the use of combined models of temperature and water potential (hydrothermal models: lines 163 and 164) should also be mentioned. Lines 171-175: the importance of hydraulic conductivity could also be addressed (Bewley et al. 2013). Section 4.2.: The discussion of the adequacy of seeding for the rehabilitation of native Brigalow ecosystems should be further clarified giving the pros and contras of this approach in contrast with the use of asexually propagation methods. Other aspects of both approaches, such as genetic diversity could also be discussed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Bewley, J. D., Bradford, K. J., Hilhorst, H. W., & Nonogaki, H. (2013). Seeds, Physiology of Development, Germination and Dormancy, pp 140-147 Cite this review as
Vasques A ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Germination of Acacia harpophylla (Brigalow) seeds in relation to soil water potential: implications for rehabilitation of a threatened ecosystem (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.268v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Teresa Eyre ·
Nov 25, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The submission appears to adhere to PeerJ templates and policies. A few editing suggestions... Abstract, 1st line, change 'of' to 'to'; line 4, insert comma after 'soils'; line 5, change 'for' to 'of'; line 6, insert comma after 'stressors'; line 19, delete 'predominant native'; line 11 insert 'an' between 'as' and 'environmental'; line 17, delete 'facilitates'; line 18, insert 'tolerant' between 'remarkably' and 'water'; line 19, insert comma after 'stress' and delete 'tolerant'; line 25, delete 'ability of asexual reproduction' and insert 'capacity to reproduce asexually' instead. Introduction, line 16: delete 'bioregion' and replace with 'A. harpophylla dominant ecosystem'. The bioregiob us bit kusted as endangered, the ecosystem is. Discussion, line 130; replace 'under' with 'in a'.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design appears sound. My only query - relevant to section 2.1, line 43 of the MS, regards where the Acacia harpophylla seeds were sourced from. Where they sourced in the field? or elsewhere.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Findings are highly valid, and data robust and analyses statistically sound. As mentioned earlier, I would like to see stated in the MS where the seeds were sourced from.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a very interesting article on a little known topic - the germination of Acacia harophylla seeds. Acacia harpophylla communities are of conservation concern both at Australian state and federal levels, so the restoration of these communities is of particular interest. The authors have put together a succinct and well written and scientifically sound paper, and should be congratulated. Cite this review as
Eyre TJ ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Germination of Acacia harpophylla (Brigalow) seeds in relation to soil water potential: implications for rehabilitation of a threatened ecosystem (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.268v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 13, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
