Review History for Malagasy Conostigmus (Hymenoptera: Ceraphronoidea) and the secret of scutes [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Malagasy Conostigmus (Hymenoptera: Ceraphronoidea) and the secret of scutes To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 25th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 13th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on October 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 13th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ilaria Negri
·
Oct 13, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
In my opinion, the manuscript is now suitable for publication in PeerJ as it is.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ilaria Negri
·
Sep 13, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear István, I'm glad to let you know that your article received very nice comments, as it represents an innovative and comprehensive example of a scientific work (in the era of “salami slicing”, i.e. data fragmentation). The article contains a small number of easily correctable errors including grammar, missing references, and minor content clarification. Therefore my decision is “minor revisions”.
label_author_1
Gavin Broad ·
Sep 1, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Mostly great. Some minor problems with the English.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No problems at all. Innovative use of imaging technology to approach taxonomic problems.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No problems at all.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a lovely, innovative taxonomic paper, the first I am aware of looking at intraspecific variation at the level of epidermal cells. It is about time that more attention was given to ceraphronoids. The illustrations are beautiful and really liberate these Conostigmus from their usual fate of being small, dull wasps that are ignored. I do have some minor comments and corrections that I hope will be of use. Sorry for the pedantic nature of many of the textual corrections. I just couldn’t stop myself. But there were a surprising number of mistakes in spelling and grammar. There is no diagnosis of Conostigmus; some notes on how to recognise the genus in the Malagasy fauna is surely essential, given how poorly known ceraphronoids are. The beginning of the discussion is inaccurate. You can’t state that Ichneumonidae and Braconidae are ‘known to be exceptions to the typical latitudinal diversity gradient’ when there are recent papers clearly showing that these ‘exceptions’ are likely due to lack of good data. See recent papers by Quicke (2012) and Veijalainen et al. (2012). It is the case for various groups, including Ichneumonoidea and Ceraphronoidea, that described species richness is a poor proxy for actual species richness. Ceraphronoidea are not simply ‘ectoparasitoids’; a variety of life history strategies have been reported and it’s clear that this is a biologically very interesting but under-explored superfamily. As far as I am aware, all Megaspilidae, where known, are ectoparasitoids (e.g. Haviland, 1920), but Ceraphronidae includes endoparasitoids, with both ectoparasitoids and endoparasitoids apparently within the same genus (e.g. Aphanogmus: Parnell, 1963; Luhman et al., 1999; Evans et al., 2005). Abbreviations of anatomical structures (i.e. morphological terminology) shouldn’t be in a supplementary file; I would argue these are essential to understand the paper. PeerJ is not very helpful in providing a PDF that treats text as images. In species diagnoses, you should state whether one sex is unknown, as this effects the ability to diagnose the species. For example, C. macrocupula is diagnosed only by the long cupula, and is known only from males. Would a female be recognisable? Some of the terminology is confusing, such as whether the notch of a cupula is notched… There is no guidance on the figures as to what this means. I was trying to work out the male genitalia terminology from fig. 43 but I don’t know if ‘pnc’ is supposed to be ‘pdc’. It doesn’t look like much of a notch. Contrary to your opening sentence of the conclusions (line 1476), I don’t believe your data do say much about a latitudinal diversity gradient for Megaspilidae. You’ve only looked at one genus, albeit the largest genus. You don’t present wider data on the faunas of Dendrocerus or other, smaller genera. Evans, G. A., P. Dessart and H. Glenn. 2005. Two new species of Aphanogmus (Hymenoptera: Ceraphronidae) of economic importance reared from Cybocephalus nipponicus (Coleoptera: Cybocephalidae). Zootaxa 1018: 47-54. Haviland, M. D. 1920. On the bionomics and development of Lygocerus testaceimanus Kieffer, and Lygocerus cameroni Kieffer, (Proctotrypoidea-Ceraphronidae) parasites of Aphidius (Braconidae). Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science 65: 101-127. Luhman, J. C., R. W. Holzenthal and J. K. Kjaerandsen. 1999. New host record of a ceraphronid (Hymenoptera) in Trichoptera pupae. Journal of Hymenoptera Research 8: 126. Parnell, J. R. 1963. Three gall midges (Diptera: Cecidomyidae) and their parasites found in the pods of broom (Sarothamnus scoparius (L.) Wimmer). Transactions of the Royal Entomological Society of London 115: 261-275. Quicke, D. L. J. 2012. We know too little about parasitoid wasp distributions to draw any conclusions about latitudinal trends in species richness, body size and biology. PLoS ONE 7: 9 pp. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032101 Veijalainen, A., Wahlberg, N., Broad, G. R., Erwin, T. L., Longino, J. T. and Sääksjärvi, I. E. 2012. Unprecedented ichneumonid parasitoid wasp diversity in tropical forests. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London Series B - Biological Sciences 279: 4694–4698. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Broad G ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Malagasy Conostigmus (Hymenoptera: Ceraphronoidea) and the secret of scutes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2682v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Maciej Krzyzynski ·
Sep 12, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Submitted manuscript is consistent with PeerJ policies and scientific standards. Authors provided all needed information about hardware and software they used (with hyperlinks to the source if possible), also gave precise information about where (in which collection) specimens of Conostigmus were finally placed. Raw data is put on the Figshare. English used by the Authors is clear. Figures are relevant, well described and labeled. The quality of photographs reaches known limits of microhymenopteran photography. However disparate figures in submitted .pdf file and as source files, labeled as figures 1-6 are bothering me.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The submission fits the Scope of PeerJ journal. Also methods are described adequately and one should not have any issues with reproducing the studies.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Authors provided rich submission with 9 new described species from Madagascar, revised genus Conostigmus occuring on the island, confirmed reverse Latitudinal Diversity Gradient in Conostigmus (and therefore in Megaspilidae family) and results of research on body size polyphenism. In the era of "salami slicing" and publishing less relevant data as possible, I find submitted manuscript as comprehensive example of scientific work. Nevertheless there are still few lapses in the manuscript (labeled by a comment function in Adobe Reader, .pdf file attached) and I am recommending to straighten them. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Krzyzynski M ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Malagasy Conostigmus (Hymenoptera: Ceraphronoidea) and the secret of scutes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2682v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 25, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
