Review History for Antioxidant nutrition in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) parr and post-smolt, fed diets with high inclusion of plant ingredients and graded levels of micronutrients and selected amino acids [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Antioxidant nutrition in Atlantic salmon ( Salmo salar ) parr and post-smolt, fed diets with high inclusion of plant ingredients and graded levels of micronutrients and selected amino acids To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 17th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 30th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on July 28th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on October 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 14th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Barbara Nowak
·
Oct 14, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Once again thank you for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ and making all revisions in a timely manner.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Barbara Nowak
·
Aug 1, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for the revised document. I was hoping you would address the comments made by the reviewer, you seemed to dismiss most. Could you please make as many suggested changes as possible? Could you please confirm that you really checked all his queries and all this information is now correct? I'm concerned about papers in press being cited, I think you either have to include all information here or wait for the other paper to be accepted.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 28, 2016
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Barbara Nowak
·
Jun 30, 2016
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address all changes as requested by the reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 23, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Well designed study and relevant work with a very balanced and integral use of expressions and good English grammar. It is well understood and detailed with good explanations of fundamental rationale leading to the study.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
A sound and robust investigation that conforms to the science of fish nutrition. The use of fish, namely salmon and the feeding protocols and the diet formulations are most interesting. The focus on micro-nutrients and anti-oxidant status of fish receiving high plant diets is adding to our knowledge base with novel approaches particularly the addition of genomics and molecular biology in appropriate areas to enhance the full suite of redox and other related oxidative stress measurements and vitamin and trace element requirements in a series of test feed formulations..
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
the finding are in keeping with some expectations but do enhance our comprehension of anti-oxidant micro- nutrients in the nutrition of farmed salmon. The work is scientifically robust and with sound statistical relevance to the study. The results add weight to our growing knowledge base in aquaculture nutrition.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
None Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Antioxidant nutrition in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) parr and post-smolt, fed diets with high inclusion of plant ingredients and graded levels of micronutrients and selected amino acids (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2688v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is well written and generally free of mistakes, The introduction is well planned and provides good background on each of vitamin E, Asc, Se and redox. It is a little long. The methods are well structured and logical. There are minor issues with explanations on feed collection (line 194) and measurement of fish (line 216) which can easily be corrected. Some description of tank versus cage do not seem consistent (line 219 and 220). There are minor issues with brackets and the citing of authors at the end of some sentences; e.g. line 228 and 231. Results were succinct and flowed easily from the methods. Discussion was informative, however still a little long. The reader is directed to many unpublished studies throughout the manuscript which is a somewhat frustrating. Tables are OK. The authors should indicate whether formulations and chemistry is presented on as-is basis or dry-basis. Also check units for gross energy. All figures (except for figure 5) were very small when printed for reading. If possible the size of figures should be increased (or less per page) to improve their interpretation by the reader. References cited were extensive and relevant to the work.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The methods were adequately explained and provide enough detail to be reproduced. From above; the methods are well structured and logical. There are minor issues with explanations on feed collection (line 194) and measurement of fish (line 216) which can easily be corrected. Some description of tank versus cage (i.e. from trial 1 or trial 2) do not seem consistent (line 219 and 220). Presenting some of the basic fish performance data in a table would be useful. The authors indicate this will be done elsewhere (Hemre et al. in-prep), but the mention of recording liver and gutted weights (line 222) leads the reader to expect these types of data will be presented in the current manuscript. The statistical section seems a bit wordy and the authors might simplify their approach by stating the line of best fit was used, whether that be a linear or quadratic function. It would be useful to present data on the fitted coefficients, slopes and intercepts as well as confidence intervals around these values. Some reason for using the selected models would also be useful; i.e. what is the biological basis for fitting these types of curves to this type of data?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
As indicated in sections above. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Antioxidant nutrition in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) parr and post-smolt, fed diets with high inclusion of plant ingredients and graded levels of micronutrients and selected amino acids (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2688v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 17, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
