Review History for The scavenger receptor repertoire in six cnidarian species and its putative role in cnidarian-dinoflagellate symbiosis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The scavenger receptor repertoire in six cnidarian species and its putative role in cnidarian-dinoflagellate symbiosis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 3rd, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 31st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on September 27th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on October 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 16th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Fabiano Thompson
·
Oct 16, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your article is now accepted for publication.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Fabiano Thompson
·
Sep 29, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Your revised text contains the majority of the remarks of the referees. One remark is missing though. Please make to revise your text accordingly. >20% identity in a protein domain does not mean a "well conserved among metazoans". On the contrary, it is a weak phylogenetic signal. eg Lines 375 Protein sequence alignments of the predicted SR-B-like proteins from 376 cnidarians, combined with a subset of vertebrate and invertebrate sequences, revealed that the 377 CD36 domain is highly conserved across metazoans. Cnidarian sequences showed moderate 378 homology to human SR-Bs, with 26-32%, 28-37% and 28-33% identity to human CD36, LMP2, 379 and SR-B1, respectively. Identities within the cnidarian group were substantially higher, ranging 380 from 39 to 95%, with the two Acropora species showing the highest homology to each other. 381 Cnidarian sequences showed between 21 and 27% identity to the predicted SR-B-like protein 382 sequence from the sponge, Suberites domuncula. So please tone down this. For the rest is ready to be accepted. Sincerely. Fabiano
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 27, 2016
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Fabiano Thompson
·
Aug 31, 2016
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors. Two referees have now reviewed your manuscript and their comments are below. I suggest you correct your text accordingly. Sincerely.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 20, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Your aim was to describe the diversity of SRs in Cnidaria but you just analysed deeply the SR-B family. Please include the analysis of SR-E and SR-I (the same way done for SR-B) in the Results section, since you found signals of expansion on them too. The experimental step of the work with fucoidan is fine as a first approach. Some specific comments: Line 55 – The bootstrap support value from the ancestral node of cnidarians and the rest of bilaterian was 1. It should be written “high support” instead of “moderate support”. Line 328 – Please include the information of Figure S1 into Figure 2. Line 346 – There are 18 CD36 for Cnidaria in Figure 2 but you just used 12 in Figure 3. Where are the other six? The missing CD36 are: one from A. elegantissima, one from A. pallida, three from A. digitifera and one from F. scutaria. Line 346 – “SR-B-like” instead of “SRB-like”. Lines 348-367 – Please report the results for SR-E and SR-I too. Line 388 – It is not well explained. You said 72 SRCR-domain-containing protein but 32 of them contains only CTLD domains and four of them have only CD36. Also, the number 72 refers to all domains found for Aiptasia (including five in the supplementary file). Please correct this sentence.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Lines 156-166 – Why these six species? How many cnidarian species with genome sequenced were available when you assembled the data? You could include the date you downloaded the genomes/transcriptomes here. Also, why you reassembled the data of Aiptasia? Please add the answer in the text. Line 182 – 1x10-1 is not a high e-value. Delete the high, please. Lines 199-202 – You used just the CD36 domain to reconstruct the phylogenetic tree (line 205) but the way is written here appears that you used these three domains. Line 204-213 – Why did you not reconstruct the phylogeny of SR-E and SR-I families since there was expansion on these domains in Cnidaria too? Please repeat this analysis (as well as the alignment on Figure S2) for SR-E and SR-I. Also, make the alignments for the three SRs (SR-B, SR-E and SR-I) available (e.g. Dryad repository). Lines 204-213 – Please cite the references for the software employed: MAFFT, Geneious, ProtTest, FastTree, SEQBOOT and PhyML. Lines 212-213 – Instead “identical topography” use “identical topology”.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Everything is fine. The addition of SR-E and SR-I analysis will improve the relevance of the paper.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The scavenger receptor repertoire in six cnidarian species and its putative role in cnidarian-dinoflagellate symbiosis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2692v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Arthur Silva-Lima ·
Aug 30, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article presents interesting results in the diversity of scavenger receptors (SR) in cnidarians and is generally well written. Results are relevant and properly represented by figures. Background information in the structure and function of SR are well covered in the introduction, but there is no introduction to the interplay between the immune system and the production of NO. In the context of cnidarian-dinoflagellate symbiosis, this section is even more important, as bleaching is proposed to be triggered by oxidative stress. A paragraph describing this interplay in the introduction would bridge the gap between the bioinformatic analysis and the laboratory essays, enhancing the text flow. The use of DAF oxidation as a proxy for NO concentration could be explained in the introduction too. Some phrases are misplaced and a general review of the manuscript could resolve this issues. The following statements should be moved to the introduction: Lines 255-260: 'We hypothesized that if a symbiont is co-opting host SRs to initiate tolerogenic pathways (such as the TGFß pathway) that dampen or prevent an immune response, blocking SR-ligand-binding capabilities could induce an immune response upon the addition of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). LPS is a MAMP that has been shown to induce an anemone immune response measured as increased nitric oxide (NO) production (Detournay et al. 2012; Perez & Weis 2006).' Lines 313-314: 'Vertebrate SR-As are defined by a collagen domain coupled with most proteins containing either an SRCR domain or a CTLD at the C terminus (Bowdish & Gordon 2009)' Lines 317-319: 'Human SR-Es are defined by the presence of only CTLDs (Zani et al. 2015). The human lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1 (LOX1) has an N-terminal cytoplasmic tail, a transmembrane domain and a single C-terminal CTLD (Canton et al. 2013)' Lines 320-322: 'SR-Is in humans are defined by containing only SRCR domains in various numbers of repeats and are grouped into three classes: CD5, CD6 and CD163' The following statements should be moved to the methods: Line 373: '(to test for fucoidan toxicity to the animal)' Lines 376-378: 'A second fucoidan experiment investigated the possible immune-regulation role of an SR in symbiosis maintenance. Symbiotic anemones were treated with increasing concentrations of fucoidan and were subsequently immune-challenged by incubation with LPS.' Minor issues: Lines 158/159: Either indicate it is Aipatsia pallida (as it was done throughout the manuscript) or remove the term 'species', for consistency. (I know this is not the authors' fault, anyway...) Lines 162-166: There might be some confusion between experimental manipulation and bioinformatic manipulation. Change 'All resources were used without manipulation' for something like 'Published transcriptome/genome assemblies'. Line 169: 'primarily from GenBank'. What's the other source? Line 170: Most importantly, these sequences are queries for the Blast searches on cnidarian resources. Line 178-179: not clear what the authors mean by 'Keyword searches using the terms SR, CD36, LMP2, SRCR, and scavenger were also performed.' Was it on the annotation provided by the original articles? How were then obtained? Was it different from the methodology presented? Lines 190-191: Which databases? Line 202. It's actually figure 2. Line 260. Reinforce that 'Symbiotic anemones were incubated' Line 286: 'a baseline colonization level for symbiotic anemones'. Shouldn't it be 'aposymbiotic anemones'? Line 378-380: Change 'The FSW control-treated anemones had low levels of NO production, a proxy for an immune response, measured as MFI of the NO-specific probe DAF-FM DA in tentacles, in response to incubation in LPS.' to: 'The FSW control-treated anemones had low levels of NO production in response to incubation in LPS.' Removed phrases should be in introduction/methods.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The manuscript clearly defines a meaningful research question, addressed in an original research. Reporting of the methods can be improved with a clearer reporting of the bioinformatic analysis. blast and pfam searches should be explained separately, with respective queries and algorithm parameters (lines 169 – 197). Description of the bioessays shall be clearer if the paragraph on immune response and NO production is included in the introduction. The statistical model should be presented, with more explanation. It is hard to evaluate/understand what was done. Was it used random effects models for the individuals and polyps within individuals? It looks like a nested design with repeated measures is more appropriate for dealing with the lack of independence in lines 298-301. As the test is based in differences between slopes, the slopes should be presented in the results (at least as supplementary data).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Results presented looks robust although the statistical methods needs a better description. The only retention I have with the results published in this study is with the phylogenetic analysis of CD36 domain containing sequences. Results suggests that CD36-domain containing protein diversification occurred independently in cnidarians and bilaterians. Although this might be interesting, it contributes little to this manuscript. At least in the manner it is currently presented. Furthermore, 'basal' metazoan sequences other than cnidarians are under-represented and the phylogeny is constructed with varying number of paralogous sequences. In this context, the fact that a ctenophore sequence groups together with sponges instead of cnidarians looks like a long-branch attraction artifact. My recommendation is to remove it from the current manuscript and treat it in a separate study, where this analysis could be improved with a more comprehensive review of the available genomic resources and by the identification of orthologous sequences.
Comments for the author
The manuscript succeeds in the task of identifying novel SR in cnidarians and suggesting a role for them in the cnidarian-dinoflagellate symbiosis and I'd like to compliment the authors for that. Although the manuscript might be ‘self-contained' in it's present form, it would be interesting to have a larger discussion in the effects between the cnidarian immune system, the production of NO and the disruption of symbiosis under oxidative stress. Would the oxidation burst in the dinoflagellate under heat stress causes the failure of the symbiont to regulate the host immune system? It would be also interesting to evaluate the presence of the set of SR in non-cnidarian hosts. Riesgo et al (2014) presents transcriptomic resources for both symbiotic and aposymbiotic sponge Cliona varians. It would be interesting to include it in the bioinformatic analysis presented. Riesgo, A., Peterson, K., Richardson, C., Heist, T., Strehlow, B., McCauley, M., Cotman, C., Hill, M. and Hill, A., 2014. Transcriptomic analysis of differential host gene expression upon uptake of symbionts: a case study with Symbiodinium and the major bioeroding sponge Cliona varians. BMC genomics, 15(1), p.1 Cite this review as
Silva-Lima A ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "The scavenger receptor repertoire in six cnidarian species and its putative role in cnidarian-dinoflagellate symbiosis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2692v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 3, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
