Review History for Induced pluripotent stem cells from human hair follicle keratinocytes as a potential source for in vitro hair follicle cloning [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Induced pluripotent stem cells from human hair follicle keratinocytes as a potential source for in vitro hair follicle cloning To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 28th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 26th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on October 14th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 17th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dunxian Tan
·
Oct 17, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The quality of the revised version was significantly improved and it is acceptable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 14, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dunxian Tan
·
Aug 26, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please follow the reviewer's comments to correct your manuscript carefully.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 17, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The submission follows to PeerJ policies. However, it does not include sufficient introduction about the other manuscript that employs human hair follicle keratinocytes to be reprogrammed to iPS. There are 13 articles where this technology was employed. They should reference this relevant prior literature and establish the main aim by the end of the introduction to understand the proposal of the work done.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The submission describes an original research since they propose iPS obtained from keratinocytes as a source back of keratinocytes. Most of the prior papers found keratinocytes reprogramming useful to reach cardiomyocytes or neuronal cells. The research is well conducted and the methodology employed suitable and novel. Still, they have to strongly indicate the gap being investigated and to how the study contributes to filling that gap.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings found in the manuscript are correct and they are supported by well-conducted experiments. However, the figures are not clear enough. Higher magnification images to see whether the signal is specifically located inside cells should be included. In addition, Figure 6 should be consistent with Figure 5 (labelling of RT-PCR gels). It was found an overexpression of NANOG and KLF4 in HHFK cells since these are cells were purchased from a company and they claim that they are keratinocytes fully differentiated; this result should be carefully explained. The conclusions should be appropriately connected to the original question investigated.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In general, the article is correct and employs a novel technology that could be useful in the future to treat hair loss, although this is still a speculation and animal experiment should be carried out in the future. The weakness of the article is the absence of a clear main aim at the beginning and the quality of the images that should be improved since all their conclusions are base on immunohistochemistry assays. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Induced pluripotent stem cells from human hair follicle keratinocytes as a potential source for in vitro hair follicle cloning (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2695v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 19, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Actually, quality of figures needs to be improved and more organized data representation is needed.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
For iPSC generation, they used retrovirus. Authors are recommended to use the more updated iPSC generation technique for generation of exogenous DNA integration-fee iPSC, which will be more safe and efficient for further study. More markers are needed for the efficient differentiation into hair keratinocytes.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Quality of figures needs to be improved and more organized data representation is needed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Actually, quality of figures needs to be improved and more organized data representation is needed. For iPSC generation, they used retrovirus. Authors are recommended to use the more updated iPSC generation technique for generation of exogenous DNA integration-fee iPSC, which will be more safe and efficient for further study. More markers are needed for the efficient differentiation into hair keratinocytes. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Induced pluripotent stem cells from human hair follicle keratinocytes as a potential source for in vitro hair follicle cloning (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2695v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 28, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
