Review History for Pests, diseases and crop protection practices in the smallholder sweetpotato production system of the highlands of Papua New Guinea [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Pests, diseases and crop protection practices in the smallholder sweetpotato production system of the highlands of Papua New Guinea To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 27th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 21st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on October 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 19th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Giovanni Benelli
·
Oct 19, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript can be accepted now.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Giovanni Benelli
·
Sep 21, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Three reviewers appreciated the quality of your work. Please address their minor revisions.
label_author_1
Stefano Colazza ·
Sep 14, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript entitled "Pests, diseases and crop protection practices in the smallholder sweet potato production system of the highlands of Papua New Guinea" provides important data about on plant disease and herbivore insects affecting sweet potato on sweet potato based on extensive farm survey. This paper was well thought out, and it is generally well written and the results and discussion are clearly presented. I could find no serious flaws in logic or presentation.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This paper was well thought out, and it is generally well written and the results and discussion are clearly presented. I could find no serious flaws in logic or presentation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I would suggest to provide on figure 1-7 SE for each bar. And on table 1, I would suggest to provide the meaning of the letters used to identify the retail supplier.
Cite this review as
Colazza S ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Pests, diseases and crop protection practices in the smallholder sweetpotato production system of the highlands of Papua New Guinea (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2703v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Bing Wang ·
Sep 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The ms is written in smooth language and its structure is formatted in accordance with Peer J style. There are minor lettering errors in figure1, 2 and 3 (figure 1, asterisk; figure 2, nube. figure 3; horizontal title). The raw data are available.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The study investigated the major pests and diseases as well as farmers protection practices for sweetpotato production in the highland of PNG. The research aim is well defined. In the introduction authors provided sufficient literatures to explain the importance of research. The survey is a combination of symptom observation and farmers interview using a small sample of 33 farmers. The description of methods is simple. There is no information such as the demography of survey location, planted sweetpotato variety and growth stage and annual yield, surveyed farmers’ educational levels. It is hard to evaluate the representativeness of survey.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results are clearly stated. Significant differences were determined using the chi-square test. There are no data present about the major diseases incidence and severity. In addition, disease symptom alone is often inadequate for disease identification, why authors did not further isolate causal agents to confirm the major diseases in laboratory.
Cite this review as
Wang B ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Pests, diseases and crop protection practices in the smallholder sweetpotato production system of the highlands of Papua New Guinea (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2703v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Mark Wright ·
Sep 21, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This manuscript reports on a very basic survey of sweet potato insect pests and plant diseases in PNG, and also of crop protection options available. It is a very simple survey, but yields some interesting information. The writing is clear, and the analyses straightforward. The hypotheses tested are rather simple, but serve the purpose of addressing the basic questions addressed by this study.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Very basic and determined to a large extent by difficult field conditions, but probably adequate for the type of data collected, and the questions being addressed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data are straightforward and the findings are similarly straightforward and clear.
Comments for the author
The finding that failure to select 'clean' propagative material was prevalent is quite interesting - an interesting contrast with the African situation. Cite this review as
Wright MG ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "Pests, diseases and crop protection practices in the smallholder sweetpotato production system of the highlands of Papua New Guinea (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2703v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 27, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
