Review History for Dominance relationships in a family pack of captive arctic wolves (Canis lupus arctos): the influence of competition for food, age and sex [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Dominance relationships in a family pack of captive arctic wolves ( Canis lupus arctos ): the influence of competition for food, age and sex To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 11th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor's decision was successfully appealed on August 31st, 2016. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 31st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on September 15th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on October 19th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 20th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Lesley Rogers
·
Oct 20, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Please note that, in line 234, it should be 'data were', not 'data was'. This correction could be made in the proofs.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 19, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Lesley Rogers
·
Sep 19, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for correcting your manuscript to take into account the findings of Shizuke and McDonald (2015) and following their suggestions in your data analysis. This improves the paper. First I have a couple of minor corrections, as follows: 245-246: Please say what analyses were used to ascertain no clustering and state the statistical values. 548; Correct ‘last’ to ‘lasts’. Secondly, I sought the comments of one of your reviewers and received the following: I believe the authors have made a convincing argument that their findings are publishable now they have integrated the paper by Shizuku and McDonald (2015) and have engaged with it. I have no hesitation now to recommend publication. Perhaps line 437 can be corrected for the grammar error that spills over into meaning (use of comparative without a comparison—: " is more reliable" (than what?); alternative is to changed the sentence. Please make these final corrections to your manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 15, 2016
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Lesley Rogers
·
Aug 31, 2016
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
In light of your Appeal, we are willing to consider a revised manuscript in which you address the comments, engage fully with Shizuku and MacDonald (2015) and make all of the other corrections. Of course, it is still possible that the final decision might be rejection. Hence the submission is returned to you, for you to submit a rebuttal and revision.
Aug 31, 2016 · Appeal
Appeal
Lesley Rogers
·
Aug 8, 2016 ·
Academic Editor
Reject
I regret to inform you that your manuscript is not suitable for publication. One reviewer has recommended rejection and, although the other reviewer has said only minor corrections, in fact the changes suggested are major. It is important that you address the recent paper mentioned to you by reviewer 2 and say what is new about your own research. If you revise your paper taking all of the reviewers' comments into consideration, you may resubmit and begin the reviewing process again.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 28, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The English could be improved, but is basically understandable. The paper in general does not contain major flaws, the introduction and background are sufficient and the structure conforms with PeerJ discipline norm. As the method section is rather clear, the results section needs some clarification (see validity of findings). There was an error during raw data uploading: sociomatrices and data for GLM were exchanged.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Introduction (line 55): Please better define “triangle transitivity” just as it was done for other definitions (e.g. “linear hierarchy model”). Materials & Methods (Line 153): The pack was composed of 20 individuals: 10 males and 10 females, 9 adults (defined as older than two years) and 11 sub-adults (younger than 2 years). Given that “sex” and “age” are essentials for the manuscript it would be recommended to specify how many males/females were adults/sub-adults.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Results: Line 247: “Rank order based on submissive behaviour was positively correlated with the rank order based on dominance behaviour (rs = 0.85, n = 19, p = 0.0001)”. Line 257:” The rank orders based on aggressive behaviour was correlated to those based on dominance and submissive behaviours (rs = 0.72, n = 19, p =0.0005; rs = 0.68, n = 19, p = 0.001, respectively) and so on… The correlations are interesting but please present some plots of the data in cases of significant correlations in order to reassure the reader that the data were not clustered. Clustered data are not suitable for correlation. From the paper it is meant that subjects were not desexed, is this correct? If this was the case, how was the estrous cycle detected in females? This aspect is fundamental given the well-attested role of estrogens on aggressive behaviors.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Dominance relationships in a family pack of captive arctic wolves (Canis lupus arctos): the influence of competition for food, age and sex (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2707v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 7, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper conforms in all respects to the rules of basic reporting set out by PeerJ. And the topic concerning dominance hierarchies is also appropriate for the journal since the ubiquity of dominance hierarchies across all animal systems is well established. Although rather wordy, the paper is fine. Its experimental design is ok, although estrous cycles in females change behaviour and no mention is made of this. Some stats may also need to be revisited e.g. –I don’t think clustered data are suitable for correlations?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
see above
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
see below
Comments for the author
However, I am not convinced that this is a publishable paper. There was an excellent paper published in 2015 in Interface by the Royal Society that reviewed dominance hierarchies (Shizuka D, McDonald DB. 2015 The network motif architecture of dominance hierarchies. J. R. Soc. Interface12: 20150080. http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/ rsif.2015.0080). It had a number of important observations to make with which the authors of the paper under review here should have engaged. Although earlier publications of the authors of the Interface paper are cited, the important one of 2015 is strangely enough not even mentioned ,even though highly relevant. Moreover, on the point of hierarchies there are some misgivings as well. I always feel uncomfortable when captive populations are studied for social behaviour because captivity and the forced cohabitation of animals may change behaviour entirely, including structures of dominance relations when formed and maintained in captivity. The way of measuring dominance on offer in this paper may indeed be very useful but this could either be done as a short letter or, if such full debate seems warranted, it would have to take account of the Shizuka/McDonald paper and somehow develop this further. All in all, I would not recommend publication at this time. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Dominance relationships in a family pack of captive arctic wolves (Canis lupus arctos): the influence of competition for food, age and sex (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2707v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 11, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
