Review History for Open surgery versus retroperitoneal laparoscopic nephrectomy for renal tuberculosis: a retrospective study of 120 patients [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Open surgery versus retroperitoneal laparoscopic nephrectomy for renal tuberculosis: a retrospective study of 120 patients To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 17th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 18th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on October 20th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 20th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Monique Roobol
·
Oct 20, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All reviewer comments were adequately addressed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 20, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Monique Roobol
·
Sep 18, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Nicely written paper, but as can be read in the reviewers comments needs further work. Especially on patient selection and how choice of treatment was determined. Also on outcome essential information is lacking. Conclusions need to be discussed in more detail and compared with previously published work
label_author_1
Arnout Alberts ·
Aug 29, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The current study is an interesting retrospective case-control study. The reviewer has no major comments on the design of the study. However, I do have several suggestions to improve the manuscript: -It should be stated in the material and methods section that this is a case-control study -The selection process of cases of nephrectomy for TBC within the hospital remains unclear and should be further explained. How many nephrectomies were performed during the 5 year period in general (other indications such as RCC). Were cases selected based on the nephrectomy specimens (pathological signs of TBC; i.e. mycobacteria/granuloma’s), or was TBC already diagnosed preoperatively, for example in urine culture in the asymptomatical patients. Nowhere in the manuscript it was even stated that pathological examination of the resection specimens was performed, not to mention retrospective chart review of the pathology report. -As there was no major difference in the rate of adhesions between men who received laparoscopic vs open surgery (45% vs 55%, p = 0.28) it should be further elucidated why men received the specific surgical approach. How many surgeons operated on the 120 men? Did some surgeons operate laparoscopically and others open? Or was there an institutional evolution from open nephrectomy towards the laparoscopic approach within the 5 year time period? Were the open nephrectomies performed retroperitoneal (lumbotomy) or sometimes transperitoneal? -120 cases of nephrectomy for TBC within 5 years seems a lot for clinicians who practice in areas where (extrapulmonary/renal) TBC is very rare. Therefore, it might be helpful to add some background information in the discussion section on the incidence of extrapulmonary/renal TBC in China in general and in the Gansu Provence in particular. -The conclusion of the authors is that the laparoscopic approach is as effective as the open approach: no significant difference in blood loss, transfusion rate and postoperative hospital days was found. In line with the results of larger studies comparing the open and laparoscopic approach for other indications (RCC, UPJ stenosis), one might expect to see an advantage of the laparoscopic approach. Considering the longer operating time with the laparoscopic approach and the 10% conversion rate, are these results not more or less in favor of the open approach (not taking into account postoperative pain)? Please discuss. Cite this review as
Alberts A ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Open surgery versus retroperitoneal laparoscopic nephrectomy for renal tuberculosis: a retrospective study of 120 patients (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2708v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 17, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
- The manuscript is nicely written and does not contain any obvious grammatical errors - The introduction an background looks sufficient. - No comparrison with already available data (e.g. Xian et al, 2015).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
- The research question was well described. Aswell as the gap of knwoledge. - This study unfortuntaley is a retrospective study, for this disease I think this is the best option. Pro-spective randomized controleled studies will never meet the inclusion numbers... - The authors do not describe who of how many surgeons performed the surgery. What was the experience of the surgeon. Did one surgeon perform both procedures? This should be clarified. - How was the function of a kindey determined? Please describe this. - What kind of post-operative chemotherapy was given? The same in all patients? - Describing what operating time is, is not necessary, is obvious. Also applys for length of hospital stay. - The adverse evemts/complications should be addressed as Clavien-Dindo to make it comparably with other studies.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
- The data seems robust and statistically sound. - Conclusion drawn are correct and seem to correctly underline the findings of this paper - The discussion should be expanded. As described above, the authors need to compare their work with others more properly. Xian et al is missing.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I doubt the clinical relevance of this article. Renal tuberculosis is a disease that is not common. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Open surgery versus retroperitoneal laparoscopic nephrectomy for renal tuberculosis: a retrospective study of 120 patients (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2708v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 17, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
