Review History for Pathogen reduction co-benefits of nutrient best management practices [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Pathogen reduction co-benefits of nutrient best management practices To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 15th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 10th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on October 19th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 24th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Kristin Hamre
·
Oct 24, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The map and the improved Materials and Methods section have clarified the presentation of your work.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 19, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Kristin Hamre
·
Aug 10, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I think the very useful exercise described in your ms deserves publication, but some revisions are needed. Please respond to the comments from reviewer 1. The Materials and Methods section is difficult to follow. A map of the area and a more precise description of the central points in your calculations would be helpful, perhaps given as an overview figure. Also, the frequent use of abbreviations makes the reading difficult, for example; you could use full names in the references now given as abbreviations and limit other abbreviation uses.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 29, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript prepared by Richkus et al. provides some very interesting results on a topic that truly deserves more attention. It is of great importance that the measures implemented to restore polluted water bodies are critically evaluated. Although preliminary (as noted by the authors), this work deserves publication. It will have some impact in the field of ecology, health, recreational and waste/restoration practices of coastal/inland water bodies. However, there is a need for very few major and some minor revision prior to publication in PeerJ. There is too little focus on benefits other than health. Need more on eg. benefits for fisheries/aquaculture etc. Eg. L 340 what about societal benefits by encouraging more (local) seafood intake that may lead to reduced lifestyle diseases , and also encourage local residents to make use of the area for hiking/fishing/hunting trips? (obesity is a problem in USA). How many more people could be elaborated in fishing/aquaculture industry? Could this area potentially sustain a proportion of the US seafood requirements? Can import be decreased? Would it be more sustainable than the current situation? L343 states that Table 6 "summarizes the potential values of avoiding illnesses and beach closures...", this is however only the commercial values and barely so. Please elaborate on Table 6 and tell what you expect to be potential values other than what can be counted in dollars. The important question remains: What management practices would you advice, and why? Be bold (it improves impact...).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
L95: The authors refer to some "model run scenarios". However, this model(s) is not well explained. Please clarify the modeling approach and state all model(s) used mathematically. I would appreciate a map over the area indicating Chesapeake Bay, Potomac River and the other geographical names mentioned in the manuscript.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The "Methods" paragraph in the Abstract consists of one single sentence!! Please edit to facilitate the readability L46: Delete Knox et al. 2007 (you probably mean 2008, Knox 2007 is not in the reference list) L65: Fishermen? (not man) L82, 85, and throughout (including tables). If you want to write for example "as derived by Vann et al. (2002)" you should use the "exclude author" function in EndNote or RefMan (or edit manually). L92: Delete "the" before "all" I am not sure how PeerJ handles footnotes, please consult the editor Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Pathogen reduction co-benefits of nutrient best management practices (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2713v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 9, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is well written and structured. Tables are Clear and readable.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
This paper represents a useful contribution to a scientifically based evaluation of the benesits and effects of reducing the pathogen load from land runoffs into marine Coastal ares. Although focused on local effects, the paper may be used in related and general processes related to the effects of pollution and the improvement of waterbodies.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No coments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Pathogen reduction co-benefits of nutrient best management practices (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2713v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 15, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
