Review History for The first complete plastid genomes of Melastomataceae are highly structurally conserved [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The first complete plastid genomes of Melastomataceae are highly structurally conserved To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 20th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 25th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.1 (accepted)
David Tollervey
·
Oct 25, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Reginato, Your paper has been reviewed by two referees. Although their comments are minimal they are both clear in recommending publication in PeerJ. I share their view that this is a solid manuscript. A couple of very minor points are rasied by the referees. Please address these in the final version of the MS. Best wishes, David
label_author_1
Alastair Kerr ·
Oct 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
There is a small typo in the main text for Table 1, “Vou cher”, that needs fixed
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I am unqualified to judge the technical aspects of the DNA extraction process but regarding analysis I am confident that the authors have used the best practice in the field. They demonstrate awareness of duplicated CDS and focus on phylogenetic informative regions for analysis thus avoiding any confusion over paralogy. Moreover good bootstrap values are demonstrated using maximum likelihood analysis, providing further confidence in their results. For reproducibility, the authors have provided all software with references and happily they include the software versions as well. Inclusion of code or commands used to generate the figures and analysis would be useful but this should not be a barrier to acceptance of this publication. Moreover I recommend that the journal provides access to the tables in an easily computer readable form rather than just the PDF. Cite this review as
Kerr A ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "The first complete plastid genomes of Melastomataceae are highly structurally conserved (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2715v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors report a sequence-based analysis of plastids from the Melastomataceae taxon of flowering plants. The work is of relevance in understanding the relationships within the taxonomic group, while both the list of markers and the primer sequences will be of utility in future analyses. Minor point: The text in some of the figure panels is very small, particularly Figs. 3C and 3D.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The technical approaches used for DNA extraction, DNA assembly and phylogenetic tree inference appear to be sound and appropriate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The work will be of interest and value to the field and is appropriate for publication in Peer J.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "The first complete plastid genomes of Melastomataceae are highly structurally conserved (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2715v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 20, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
