Review History for Flexible ureteroscopy for renal stone without preoperative ureteral stenting shows good prognosis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Flexible ureteroscopy for renal stone without preoperative ureteral stenting shows good prognosis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 31st, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 11th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on October 12th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 27th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ferdinand Frauscher
·
Oct 27, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The topic of this study has an important impact in patient management.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 12, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ferdinand Frauscher
·
Aug 11, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please clarify what the source/predictor of failure for primary URS in the unstented population is? Are there any predictors?
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 26, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The tables characterizing the study group are marginal, i.e not very thorough. There are multiple syntax errors that require correction. The methods are not described in enough detail.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methodology is not very scientifically rigorous. Detail on nature of the clinical interventions is lacking. The statistical analysis appears reasonable.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data is somewhat sparse; there are other factors that can influence the results that are not presented or well delineated. The findings are not new and are consistent with prior literature.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors assess ureteroscopy for renal stone without preoperative ureteral stenting shows good prognosis. Baseline characteristics of patients, stone burden, operation time, stone free rates, and complications were compared between both groups. They conclude that flexible ureteroscopy for management of renal stones without preoperative ureteral stenting is associated with good outcome in short term follow-up. There are some minor syntax errors which should be corrected. “The patients in stenting group received preoperative stenting (5~8F) for persistent renal colic, fever, insufficient renal function, or just to dilate the ureter to facilitate subsequent fURS. The patients in non-stenting group had not received stenting before fURS.” The groups are not equal, i.e patients were selectively stented. Moreover, why did they just dilate the ureter with a stent if they thought primary URS was possible (i.e in cases of no infection). From what I can discern from the methodology, this is not a randomized, controlled, trial. Did any of the patients in study have prior passed stones or stents? Ureteral perforation should be rare; how did this happen? What was the source of failure for those without stents at time of primary URS (location?) Other than semirigid URS, was any other ureteral dilation performed, were ureteral access sheaths used. Why did a patient undergoing URS receive blood transfusion? The key questions is what is the source/predictor of failure for primary URS in the unstented population? Are there predictors? Were stones dusted or fragmented/basket? Was it the choice of the surgeon? How long were the stents indwelling? Does this make a difference? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Flexible ureteroscopy for renal stone without preoperative ureteral stenting shows good prognosis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2728v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 31, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
