Review History for Harvest year effects on Apulian EVOOs evaluated by 1H NMR based metabolomics [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Harvest year effects on Apulian EVOOs evaluated by 1 H NMR based metabolomics To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 19th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 7th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on October 25th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 31st, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Giovanni Benelli
·
Oct 31, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have now read your revised article and I am largely satisfied by the quality of your work and the detailed reply to reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 25, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Giovanni Benelli
·
Oct 7, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Three reviewers appreciated the quality of your study. Please address their comments and submit a minor revised version as soon as possible.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 12, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript described very well the state of art related to the topics under study.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design was well organized.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings had a very high validity.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors used very robust multivariate analysis, including in the model a significant number of samples. The results are quite clear, highlighting the effects proposed by the authors in the objectives. In addition, the authors have interpreted and effectively discussed the results obtained. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Harvest year effects on Apulian EVOOs evaluated by 1H NMR based metabolomics (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2740v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 19, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I think that the paper has been written in a clear, unambiguous English language. I suggest to check the following rows and to correct the sentences as indicated: • 36: The first “Still” can be substituted with nevertheless • 66: Bigger/greater (“than usual”) needs to be inserted • 278: “and OPLS-DA” needs to be deleted Considering the introduction, I think it is well written and centred on the focus of the work. Materials and methods are exhaustive, clear and, even if generally I don’t like when this part of the paper is too much descriptive, considering the paragraphs on the tools that you used in order to estimate the differences between harvesting seasons, I found the explanation that you added on how Mahalanobis distances and the J2 criterion work useful for the readers since it was explained clearly and quickly. Finally, I carefully read the results and discussion and I liked how you structured the writing.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
You employed a simple experimental design that, with the good statistical approach applied, allowed you to get the information that you were searching for.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The only criticism is more a general consideration (anyway I strongly suggest you to think about it for the next work) is that from so much overstress the multivariate statistical approach (an absolutely needed tool trying to search for strong variation inside your complex dataset) you could move to different and more specific analysis (such as HPLC detailed quantification of the fatty acids on which you were focusing or, even more interesting from a commercial and practical point of view, a panel test to assess if panellists were able to feel the differences that you found) in order to get more information on your very nice and exhaustive pool of samples.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Harvest year effects on Apulian EVOOs evaluated by 1H NMR based metabolomics (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2740v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Oct 7, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
It is an interesting manuscript with a study of many samples. The objective of to get a relationship between the harvest year and the olive oils of different cultivars is quite interesting too. It is a very nice application of the statistic in the knowledge of the effects of harvest year. All the figures are relevant, only there is one, in the supplemental information, Figure S2, that should be better to add a legend. In my opinion a figure with some 1H-NMR spectra, which show the spectra of the oils from different cultivars could improve the paper. Finally, in the Reference part, there are two of them that the volume and pages are missing. Line 563 it must be include 30:134-143 And Line 578 insert 118:1380-1388
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The method are describe with sufficient information. Only could be better indicate why the mass ratio of olive oil:CDCl3 in the NMR sample is that, and no other one (also concentrated).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data are robust, and the conclusions are appropriately stated, and are limited to the results that are supported in the manuscript.
Comments for the author
Very interesting work. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #3 of "Harvest year effects on Apulian EVOOs evaluated by 1H NMR based metabolomics (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2740v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 19, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
