Review History for Biblio-MetReS for user-friendly mining of genes and biological processes in scientific documents [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Biblio-MetReS for user-friendly mining of genes and biological processes in scientific documents To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 4th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 20th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on January 13th, 2014 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 27th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Julie Thompson
·
Jan 27, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The reviewers are happy with your modifications and consider that your article is now suitable for publication.
label_author_1
Raúl Montañez ·
Jan 26, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Authors have covered all the previous comments and the present work is good enough to be published.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
OK
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Is valid
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I consider that work is acceptably good to be published in this journal Cite this review as
Montañez R ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Biblio-MetReS for user-friendly mining of genes and biological processes in scientific documents (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.276v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 13, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Julie Thompson
·
Dec 20, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The reviewers have both suggested that the technical improvements in this version of Biblio-MetReS could be described more clearly. The important criticisms of both reviewers should be taken into account in a revised version of the manuscript.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 20, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors describe an update of their approach 'Biblio-MetReS'. A first description of the tool was published in 2011. The update the authors made in comparison with the prior publication are •the inclusion of additional recognition classes (GO names and KEGG and Panther pathway names). •Combination of on the fly analysis with preprocessing of previously analysed documents I propose to reject the publication because it is not ‘self-contained,’ . The communication of a performance increase in processing is not enough for a publication. The authors should think of a version that can be accessed directly over the web. If such a tool could be used to search in the content and in addition could induce new searches it would be an appropriate unit of publication. The direct accessibility of the content over the web would be much more user friendly because no software has to be installed and handled. For the inclusion of additional dictionaries I would propose to integrate some application scenarios emphasizing the impact of the new dictionaries. Additional comments Molecular circuits are a weird expression for co occurrence networks; since you do only co occurrence you should use other expressions Please cite the main biocreative overview papers for gene mention and gene normalisation. The English has to be improved; please contact a native speaker to revise the manuscript Go process has already been integrated in other search engines! Take a look at gopubmed and gogene: http://projects.biotec.tu-dresden.de/gogene/
Experimental design
label_ed_2
...
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
...
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Biblio-MetReS for user-friendly mining of genes and biological processes in scientific documents (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.276v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Raúl Montañez ·
Dec 14, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_3
A more recent set of bibliography about text-mining methods can give us an idea of the real activity on the area, and about the need for a new tool. Methods are not described well enough in the main text neither in the supplementary material. A description of how the co-occurrence method is working. What is the minimum distance between terms in a sentence to be considered related? Who is the main term and who the synonyms? How that list is compiled? Are you using semantic similarity to explore the hierarchy of the Gene Ontology or KEEG? What sort of statistics have been applied? or How mutual-information is calculated? are questions that must be answered. If all this questions are solved in the previous work, then, It has to be better referenced. In the structure of the text, from line 101 to line 134 are placed as Results but in my opinion should be part of the methods because authors are describing how the tool works and not results about the improvements of the tool. In results I miss an overview of the accuracy statistics. Values of sensitivity and specificity of the method. Deviation from the random signal. In Line148, figure 1 have be changed to figure 2.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The experimental design is correct.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The paper describes a technical improvement, but not a scientific innovation. Only considering technical innovation, the improvements that are described are agree with the results showed.
Comments for the author
I consider that authors have to emphasize the improvement in biological processes and pathways annotations That is the real finding. Computational optimizations have to be described mainly in the web page of the tool and briefly in the article. Cite this review as
Montañez R ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Biblio-MetReS for user-friendly mining of genes and biological processes in scientific documents (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.276v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 4, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
