Review History for Pursuing the quest for better understanding the taxonomic distribution of the system of doubly uniparental inheritance of mtDNA [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Pursuing the quest for better understanding the taxonomic distribution of the system of doubly uniparental inheritance of mtDNA To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 4th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 18th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on October 29th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 5th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jane Hughes
·
Nov 5, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The changes suggested have been made and the paper is now acceptable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 29, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jane Hughes
·
Oct 18, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Two reviewers have assessed your paper and both agree that is potentially of interest to readers of the journal. They both have a few issues that would need to be satisfactorily addressed however. In particular, reviewer 1 suggests that you should consider removing the two species with very low sample sizes. I agree with this suggestion. It would make the paper neater. In addition, the minor suggestions of both reviewers should be addressed.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 13, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1.They have few samples and few sequence data to include Cerastoderma edule and Musculus discors in this paper. They only have a few sequences from one gene for one species male and 2 genes for the other species male, which they used universal primers to obtain. Their argument these species do not have DUI would contribute more to the discussion of the taxonomic distribution of the phenomena in Bivalvia with more thorough data as such they don’t really include these species in their analysis or discussion. The paper would be cleaner if they omitted these species from the paper.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
2.Line 111 capitalize August 3.Line 149 given cloning with pgem only samples one strand of PCR product and taq error is notorious did they send replicate clones for sequencing? 4.If the 2 species with little evidence of DUI were removed from Table 2 there would be room to include table S1 or S2 in the main paper. 5.Line 294 more robust phylogenies have shown monophyly of the Protobranchs please see -Andrade, et al. 2014. A phylogenetic backbone for Bivalvia: An RNA seq approach. Proc Roy Soc B 282.20142332 - Sharma et al. 2013 Into the deep: A phylogenetic approach to the bivalve subclass Protobranchia. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution. Phylogenies based on single mitochondrial genes for the Bivalvia tend to be problematic.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Pursuing the quest for better understanding the taxonomic distribution of the system of doubly uniparental inheritance of mtDNA (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2760v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript by Gusman and co-authors is an important, albeit incremental, contribution to our understanding of the evolution of the fascinating system of mtDNA inheritance in bivalve molluscs. I only have a few very minor comments Line 62: insert comma after "et al." in both citations Line 80: insert "freshwater" before "bivalve order Unionioida" Line 80: Typo in Margaritiferidae Line 111: Capitalize "August" Lines 214-15: Suggest reporting on a p-value of zero differently here
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The methods appear to be appropriate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The interpretations appear to be correct. The findings are somewhat incremental in nature and have not really resulted in any new understanding of DUI and thus mostly confirmatory in nature. I assume that the co-authors are in the process of acquiring samples the remaining bivalve superfamilies in order to complete the picture.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Pursuing the quest for better understanding the taxonomic distribution of the system of doubly uniparental inheritance of mtDNA (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2760v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 4, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
