Review History for Validation of internal reference genes for relative quantitation studies of gene expression in human laryngeal cancer [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Validation of internal reference genes for relative quantitation studies of gene expression in human laryngeal cancer To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 28th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 10th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on October 26th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 7th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
J. Thomas Sanderson
·
Nov 7, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors did a good job of addressing the concerns of the reviewers I have but one small comment. Please replace "quantitation" with "quantification" throughout the manuscript.
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 26, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
J. Thomas Sanderson
·
Aug 10, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
After reading your manuscript I agree with many of the reviewer comments. As you may not agree with all of the comments, please address each of the points raised by the reviewers in detail with solid justifications.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 15, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Figure legends are lacking details. Readers should be able to know what were the tested, on what samples and how many replicates were done by reading the legend. References are missing in the introduction, in the first half of the first paragraph
Experimental design
label_ed_1
RNA purity and integrity analysis (control) have not been detailed (if they were performed). These can greatly influence reference gene expression, and validation (selection) (Huang, X., et al., Placenta, 2013. 34; 544; Lanoix et al., Mol Biotechnol, 2012. 54; 243). How many replicate where realized?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See comments in the previous section (experimental design) concerning RNA purity and integrity.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
While the cell line is from a cancerous tissue, it is perfectly acceptable to use a different combination of reference genes for tissue and for cell lines in the same article. However, it would have been interesting to see if cell treatment or different cell passages affect the evaluation of adequate reference genes in the Hep-2. It is well documented that cell passage and treatment affect housekeeping gene and the internal control genes should be validate with the treatment and for a range on cell passage. It is noteworthy that the GeNorm V threshold is actually an arbitrary value and should not be taken as absolute. For example 3 genes are at GeNorm V of 0.155 and 5 reference genes are at 0.145, the extra time/cost should be up to the authors to judge if it is relevant to assess 2 extra genes. As for the conclusion, these results should be taken as a starting point for the reader to test reference genes on laryngial cancer tissue or cell line. While this is a good conclusion, they authors shouls invite readers to use caution and to test the reference genes suggested on their own samples as many factors can influence reference genes stability (sample sex, ethnicity, type of cancer etc.) Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Validation of internal reference genes for relative quantitation studies of gene expression in human laryngeal cancer (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2763v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jack Martin ·
Aug 9, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Wang and colleagues have performed a detailed analysis of potential internal reference genes for expression assays in laryngeal cancer cell lines and tissue. To be internally consistent and in keeping with current terminology the term “housekeeping gene” should not be used interchangeably with preferred terminology of “internal reference gene.”
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This work could benefit from including study of the candidate internal reference genes in benign laryngeal tissue as well as malignant tissue. This would assure that there internal reference gene candidates are not affected by the disease under study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
It is not clear as to how the investigators arrived at the two final recommended 4 gene combinations. For example, the NormFinder program is best suited for comparison within and between groups, yet the final recommendation for cell line and tissue were not based on the genes with the best stability values. These final selections need clarification.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a well written manuscript that provides useful information. It can be strengthened by addressing several issues as noted. Cite this review as
Martin J ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Validation of internal reference genes for relative quantitation studies of gene expression in human laryngeal cancer (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2763v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 28, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
