Review History for Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) reassure others in distress [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Asian elephants ( Elephas maximus ) reassure others in distress To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 30th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 10th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on January 28th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 29th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Lesley Rogers
·
Jan 29, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I suggest that you might move the first paragraph of the Results (lines 273-287) to the Methods.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 28, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Lesley Rogers
·
Jan 10, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please take all of the comments make by the reviewers into account in your revision.
label_author_1
Megan English ·
Jan 7, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The main suggestions I have for improving this paper are associated with the writing style, which needs to be smoothed out, particularly in the abstract and introduction. I have highlighted and commented on some examples of this in the paper attached. I suspect that there may be some over-use of self-citation, and in some cases over-referencing. Use of bracketed information is somewhat excessive, as is use of "i.e." and "e.g.". This interrupts the flow of the writing, and the points could be incorporated as succinct sentences in their own right. Use of "c.f." in referencing could also be reduced. In some instances redundant wording has been used and could be removed (more editing needed). Otherwise this is a very interesting scientific paper, and the authors have used suitable methodology and explained their results clearly.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
English M ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) reassure others in distress (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.278v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
phyllis lee ·
Jan 1, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Generally good - I have a few comments for authors where clarification of reporting would be helpful and support their findings.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I have concerns about the use of the term pseudo-family for these artificially constructed units in a captive environment. In captive elephants, small units of associates may form due to the nature of space constraints, but these may be lacking the friendly social interactions which characterise families. Among wild African elephants, we define families on the basis of their supportive reassurance vocalisations and contacts during stress events, which make these definitions and tests circular. In the wild elephants, we now have genetics and generational genealogies to support the kin-based nature of most families; some however are simply affiliative units made up of females who have chosen to be in close proximity to each other, which then enable persisting supportive interactions. So while I would agree that non-kin can be supportive of their other group members (as can adult males), I would like to see a better justification of the definitions of these small groups – how can this be done if the nature of a family is precisely the reassurance and support that is being tested here? Is the 10 minute PD sample relevant to elephants? Do they react more quickly and calm less easily than primates? Is “bunching” defined or referenced? (not until line 296). McComb has a lovely designation of bunching as a stress response.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Generally robust data and analyses - a few places where clarifications could be helpful.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I am actually very supportive of these observations – of course elephants “do” reassurance (and not just of infants, as noted above, adult males will exchange help/support against external risks). My problem is with the circularity of the construct. Pseudo families show significant reassurance after a stressor; how is this different from the definition of the pseudo family? You demonstrate contagion among the friends when one individual exhibits distress – this also is a common feature of families. Another interesting question is that distress is communicated widely through vocal signals – all elephants whether close or far are probably aware of the distress event and responses (which if escalated can cause further distress again due to contagion). My point here is that if only "friends" respond to a widely dispersed signal, then it may indeed be "special". I am not convinced that “vocalisations signal agitation or excitement” – in my opinion that is the result of captivity. Most vocalisations in the wild are movement signals (“let’s go”), affilitaive reassurance after a brief separation, play signals, friendly “greetings” – the most common. So, Olson’s work relates really to stressed and socially deprived elephants and should not be used as a model. Urination / deification + vocalisation is a signal of arousal, associated with a series of loud rumbles, roars, bellows, screams, trumpets (or chirps in Asian elephants?). These are quite distinct from the greetings, play and movement vocalisations. “bystanders responding with a considerable delay following the victim’s first display of distress” – these results seem sound, but what is a considerable delay? These results are not presented. Cite this review as
lee p ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Asian elephants (Elephas maximus) reassure others in distress (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.278v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 30, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
