Review History for Consumption of antimicrobial manuka honey does not significantly perturb the microbiota in the hind gut of mice [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Consumption of antimicrobial manuka honey does not significantly perturb the microbiota in the hind gut of mice To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 20th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 27th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on November 4th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 11th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Krystyna Dabrowska
·
Nov 11, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the revised version of the manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 4, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Krystyna Dabrowska
·
Oct 27, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please revise the manuscript according to the reviewer'scomments.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 17, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is well written. The background information, description of methods, results, and discussion of their significance was clearly laid out and easy to follow. Although the primers used were referenced, it would be good to see their sequences listed in manuscript itself.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I have no problem with the experimental design. The high group size used (n=20) is a particular strength.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results obtained support the conclusions drawn in the manuscript, which is that manuka honey, fed at the concentrations described, did not significantly impact the gut microbiota composition using the analysis methods described. It's possible that alternate analyses may tease out some differences, but given the results obtained and current understanding of the composition of manuka honey, any such differences are likely to be subtle. The experiment was adequately controlled and statistically sound.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
As far as I'm aware, this study is the first to examine the effects of manuka honey on the gut microbiota in vivo, and as such it contributes useful information to the current body of knowledge for this category of food. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Consumption of antimicrobial manuka honey does not significantly perturb the microbiota in the hind gut of mice (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2787v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Blair Lawley ·
Oct 27, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is well written and structured. Submitted supplementary qPCR data is a little confusing. Could this be re-organised? In the data sheets (Bif, Lact/Bact, Clost, E.coli) there are 21 values for each diet (42 individuals), whilst there were only 20 animals reported per group in the text. In the Bact, Clost, E.coli sheet several animals only have data for two targets.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Given the high degree of biological variation between individuals, might a cross over trial have been more valuable? In this case each individual would act as their own control whilst groups could still be compared. Alternatively relative abundance of bacterial groups could be reported (as would have been reported if a high-throughput amplicon sequencing metataxonomic approach had been taken). This would, of course, require re analysis of all samples using a 'universal' primer set. The murine gut microbiota often includes relatively large numbers of the Bacteroidales S24-7 family (known to be rich in carbohydrate utilisation genes - see Ormerod et al. Microbiome 2016). Can the authors comment on whether the Bacteroides-Prevotella-Porphyromonas group primers used in this study would also target the S24-7 family members?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
How is honey formulated into the diet? Is it processed (for example, freeze dried) and if so, does this processing impact on the biological activity of the honey? Given the thrust of the work shows that intake of high levels of manuka honey does not appear to impact on the gut microbiota, it would be important to know that the honey-modified diet is still biologically active. Could MGO be detected in the caecal material of honey-fed mice (for example by targeted LC-MS analyses)? This information would be valuable when determining the possible impact of the honey diet on the gut microbiota.
Cite this review as
Lawley B ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Consumption of antimicrobial manuka honey does not significantly perturb the microbiota in the hind gut of mice (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2787v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 20, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
