Review History for Expression profiles of the immune genes CD4, CD8ß, IFN<U+03B3>, IL-4, IL-6 and IL-10 in mitogen-stimulated koala lymphocytes (Phascolarctos cinereus) by qRT-PCR [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Expression profiles of the immune genes CD4, CD8 ß , IFN <U+03B3> , IL-4, IL-6 and IL-10 in mitogen-stimulated koala lymphocytes ( Phascolarctos cinereus ) by qRT-PCR To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 3rd, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 5th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on January 23rd, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 29th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
William Heath
·
Jan 29, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your paper has been accepted for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 23, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
William Heath
·
Jan 5, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The two reviewers of your manuscript had a number of concerns that should be addressed.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 19, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
see comments below
Experimental design
label_ed_1
acceptable
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
see comments below
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript by Maher et al describes the sequences of immune genes CD4, CD8b, IFNg, IL4, IL6 and IL10 from the koala and their expression in unsimulated and stimulated koala PBMCs. The development of qPCR assays for the koala is an important step in characterizing the immune response of the koala in health and in disease in this important species for which species specific reagents are currently lacking. The significance of the paper is diminished somewhat due to the recent publication of two other papers describing qPCR assays of koala cytokines IFNg and IL10 (Mathew et al). A recent publication on koala IL6 has also now been published which is not cited by the authors (Cunningham et al., 2013). Nevertheless, this paper still provides the first description of qPCR assays for IL4, CD4 and CD8 and this aspect could be emphasized to a greater extent. However, the manuscript could be improved before it is accepted for publication. Specific comments: Abstract: What are “developmental vaccines”? Change “common opossum” to South American opossum Introduction Line 32: replace ; with a . after the Tarlinton et al reference Line65-69: indicate that these reagents were cross-reactive reagents and not species specific. Materials and methods: Primer design: this section is far more than simply primer design. It includes PCR, sequencing, sequence analysis and qPCR. This section should be split up into sections or described more appropriately. Line 132: “common opossum” should be changed to the South American opossum. Line 139-140: why was there a need to position primers within the IL6 intron? Results: Partial sequences were obtained for the koala immune genes. Although a table proves information on amplicon length etc, this section could more adequately describe the amount of sequence obtained relative to the full length genes. More description of the sequences and specific details on the conserved residues present in each sequence could also be provided. qPCR optimization and validation The first few sentences of this section read more like a shopping list than a description of the results. Cytokine and CD4/CD8b expression in unstimulated samples Indicate the number of individuals included in each analysis. Discussion Line 253: the sentence” …ConA is considered the most effective stimulant for mouse cells”: insert T cells here. Line 268: What was the antigen used for stimulation? Figure legend 1: Indicate what the species are that are abbreviated in the alignment and accession numbers similar to figure legend 2. Why are eutherian mammals included in figure 2 but not figure 1? Figure legend 2: Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Expression profiles of the immune genes CD4, CD8ß, IFN<U+03B3>, IL-4, IL-6 and IL-10 in mitogen-stimulated koala lymphocytes (Phascolarctos cinereus) by qRT-PCR (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.280v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 7, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Abstract: The term ‘T suppressor’ should be replaced by ‘T regulatory’. ‘T suppressor’ is less commonly used in current immunology than the widely accepted ‘T regulatory’, possibly because historically, ‘T suppressor’ is associated to the period of ‘dark ages’ in immunology, and also refers to the function rather than a particular subset of CD4+ T cells. On the other hand, T regulatory (Treg) cells have been identified as Foxp3+CD25+CD4+ T cells. Similarly, Th1 cells are generally Tbet+CD4+; Th2 cells are generally Gata3+CD4+. Introduction: Lines 53-54. While the authors cited Diehl & Rincon 2002, to support the notion that IL-6 skews naïve CD4+ T cells to Th2, it is worth noting that this is uncommon in the current Th dogma. IL-6 or IL-21, in combination with TGFb, gives rise to Th17 cells, whereas IL-4, IL-2, and others are critical for Th2 differentiation (See reviews from William E Paul). Lines 48-60. This paragraph highlights why delineating Th responses are important. It will be less confusing for a reader if the authors can introduce a line or two before shifting into the evidence from HIV in humans. Cytokine and CD4/CD8b expression in unstimulated samples: Line 214 to 220. The reader will benefit if the results reported in this paragraph are plotted on a graph and shown as a figure. Line 230 to 232: Data not shown should be included at the end of the text stating ‘there was no apparent sex difference in expression of any of the cytokines …’. Discussion: Line 272 and 273. Data for the RNA quality should either be shown or at least stated as ‘data not shown’ since the authors have assessed the RNA quality using the Bioanalyzer. Acknowledgements: Perhaps the source of funding should be included.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
IL-6 primer design: It is noted in the section ‘Primer design’ that the IL-6 primers sit in the introns and genomic DNA was used for sequencing. Could the authors clarify that the subsequent qPCR design for IL-6 primers is in the exons?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Calculation of Cq values: The authors stated that 2^-delta(d)Cq was used to calculate reference gene fold change, whereas 2^-ddCq was used to assess cytokine expression fold change. They should make a distinction between 2^-dCq and 2^-ddCq. The formula of 2^-dCq is 2^-((Cq of gene of interest) - (Cq of reference gene)), which gives relative expression of the gene of interest normalised to reference genes. In contrast, the formula of 2^ddCq is 2^-((dCq of 1 test sample) - (dCq of 1 control sample)), which gives the differential expression of 1 gene in the test sample relative to the control. Hence, 2^-ddCq is referred to as fold change, whereas 2^-dCq should be referred to as relative expression. Non-Gaussian assumption: The authors noted that their data did not follow a normal distribution without indicating how they arrived at this notion. A normality test (i.e. D'Agostino-Pearson) using Prism (GraphPad) will suffice. Figure 3: The y-axis and legend should read ‘relative expression’, since 2^-dCq was used for calculation. Because Figure 3 shows the results of reference genes, the authors should indicate how they derived 2^-dCq. For example, gene 28S in sample ConA, what Cq was used for the subtraction from Cq of gene 28S? Since the same amount of cDNA is loaded in each qPCR reaction, the lower the standard deviation of Cq or dCq for the reference gene across all samples will indicate that the gene is more likely to be expressed stably and suitable as a reference gene. A table showing the standard deviation for the 3 reference genes will be helpful (See Silver N, et al. 2006 7:33, BMC Molecular Biology, Vandesompele J, et al. 2002 3: research0034, Genome Biology). That said, the results shown in Figure 3 are valid and in line with the authors’ conclusion and subsequent findings. Figure 4: This figure shows the fold change (differential expression) of the different cytokine genes. However, the authors did not indicate which control sample was used for comparison. In these figures, the control sample should be 1, since fold change = 2^-((dCq of control sample)-(dCq of control sample)) = 1.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this report, Maher I. et al. developed a molecular quantitative approach to identify immune responses in koalas. This technique, combined with previous work using flow cytometry from this group, will set the stage for examining the cytokine responses of specific immune cells in diseased koalas in future studies. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Expression profiles of the immune genes CD4, CD8ß, IFN<U+03B3>, IL-4, IL-6 and IL-10 in mitogen-stimulated koala lymphocytes (Phascolarctos cinereus) by qRT-PCR (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.280v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 3, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
