Review History for Sharing refuges on arid islands: ecological and social influence on aggregation behaviour of wall geckos [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Sharing refuges on arid islands: ecological and social influence on aggregation behaviour of wall geckos To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 11th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 16th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on November 10th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 18th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
John Measey
·
Nov 18, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am happy with the revisions made, and thank you for doing a thorough job. Personally, I don't agree with your decision to limit your discussion to geckos. There is clearly a lot more to be done and other groups, especially other lizards, can lead the way in terms of formulating future hypotheses to test.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 10, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
John Measey
·
Sep 16, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both reviewers compliment the authors on this study which is of a suitable scientific standard. However, numerous grammatical issues spoil the presentation. Additionally, Reviewer 2 notes that not all relevant literature is included, and some that is included is not correctly cited. Note that PeerJ requires you to state when personal communications occurred. I question whether São Vicente needs to be reduced to S. Vicente in text and figures. Table: The table legend must explain what the variables RQ and ST are, then use only the defined abbreviations in the table. Figures: In Figure 1, I cannot resolve which island is São Vicente, please label the parts a, b & c. In Figure 2, please clarify why n does not tally with figures presented in the text. Please review your decision to include the 0, 0 point. Figure 3 is unnecessary
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 2, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Basic reporting •The manuscript is characterized by numerous grammatical errors and poor English; the authors are advised to seek professional help to improve the quality of the English. •In the legend to Figure 2, it is stated that N = 38, but the graph contains only 13 data points, one of which is a zero point. Because some of the data points may lie on top of one another, it is impossible to see how many quadrats contained no geckos or only one gecko. In these two cases it would not be possible to have shared refuges and the question is then whether these data points should be included in the analysis or not? I don't think so. N should indicate the number of quadrats with two or more geckos. •There is a clear mix up with the legend of Figure 3. The second part of the legend is referring to Fig 2 and not Fig 3. Anyway, I am not convinced that Figure 3 is needed. •The soil underneath the rock is as much part of the refuge as the rock itself. It is therefore wrong to refer to the rock temperature as the refuge temperature. •Some of the grammatical errors are listed below, indicated by line number: 28: delete ‘may’ at end of line 44: delete ‘the’ before ‘southern’ 49: on aggregating behaviour 50: replace ‘their’ with ‘its’ 60: on most of the island 62: a scenario 65: on SV Island 66: replace ‘changes on body temperature’ with ‘enhanced thermoregulation’ 68: improved thermoregulation 83: composed of 94: phyllodactylid gecko? 95: with a mean snout-vent length (SVL) of 51.60....... 100: more pronounced cloacal pouches 104-105: sentence needs to be reconstructed 113: whether specific refuges 115: dependent on the densities of geckos or refuge availability 116: raw data are available (elsewhere in the ms plural is used for data) 122: not clear that refuge temperature is rock temperature 128: avoids 132: total number of geckos 136-137: Sampling time of quadrats varied according to 143: quickly 171: only one pair of geckos 179: homoscedasticity 180: sharing a refuge 186: quickly 194-195: Approximately 32% and 38% of geckos aggregated under rocks (i. e., were found in contact with or within the distance of their own body length from at least one other individual 197: 94% of these by 199: in three cases 200: sharing a refuge 201: sex ratio of near 1:1 202: male-female pairs 238: although the composition and causes of aggregation in these cases are unknown 244: forage, minimizing 245: in T. substituta 252: we hypothesized that the tendency of individuals to aggregate was mostly 253: improved thermoregulation 267-268: Tarentola substituta thus does not seem to improve thermoregulation by physical contact with conspecifics 269: write out genus name at beginning of sentence 271: can be the result of a difference in body size 273: as well as environmental conditions 274: than those existing on 276: aggregation in geckos does not 278: male-female pairs 280: but these are are usually composed of 284: with a high level 296: factors such as 297: male Eublepharis macularius 319: socialization that may 323-325: sentence needs to be reconstructed 329: but are poorly documented – they seem to be the case in Tiliqua rugosa 336: processes of island reptiles and to formulate guidelines for their conservation 343: interactions, but perhaps also to 370-71: remove imbedded link 378: delete commas between surnames and initials 379: remove comma after volume number 380: delete commas between surnames and initials 405: species name in italics 406: remove imbedded link 407 & 409: Mouton PleFN 447: remove imbedded link
Experimental design
label_ed_1
•The research problem is reasonably well-formulated, except for the hypothesis and predictions, which need to be reconsidered. I suggest something like the following: Hypothesis: Aggregation behaviour in T. substituta is caused by a scarcity in high quality refuges. Predictions: 1. There will be an inverse correlation between refuge sharing and availability of high-quality refuges. 2. There will be an inverse correlation between refuge sharing and gecko density across sampling sites. 3. Based on the assumption that the male-biased dimorphism displayed by the species is an indication of male territoriality, aggregations will not contain more than one adult male. 4. There will be no thermal advantage to aggregating individuals. 5. Male-female pairs will be present throughout the year and not only during the mating season. •The statistical treatment of the data appears to be sound and the methods are described in sufficient detail to allow replication. •The authors do not provide sufficient information on exactly how refuges were sampled. Were the rocks lifted straight up or tilted to one side, and did the geckos always maintain their original positions until temperature readings were taken?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
•Sample sizes are sufficiently large. •The conclusion is a neat summary of the predicted outcomes.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
•The study could make a valuable contribution to our knowledge of aggregation behaviour in geckos, provided that the manuscript is tightened up considerably. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Sharing refuges on arid islands: ecological and social influence on aggregation behaviour of wall geckos (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2802v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Michael Gardner ·
Sep 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Mostly meets standards. Not sure about Figure 3.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Valid and well reported
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Valid findings
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Thanks you for the opportunity to review this interesting paper. The authors outline aggregations in a gecko and as this in unusual, the work contributes to a growing body of research on aggregations in lizards. Generally the manuscript is well written and I have made some specific comments below to improve specific aspects. I would also suggest that the author could look at the size of lizards within aggregations and solitary – do larger animals aggregate more than smaller ones? Is figure 3 correct? It does not appear to be the same figure as in the figure legend. Edits: Lines 22-24. Change “which probably benefit of enhanced” to “which probably benefit from enhanced” However I think the paper by Chapple is not correctly referenced. Although protection from predators and thermoregulation is a potential benefit of the group living Egernia, the review did not come to that conclusion. The Chapple review dealt with a specific lineage of sinks, the Egernia group and not all scincids as is suggested in the text. Also 23 species in aggregations were mentioned not 33. Another paper Gardner et al. 2015, which the authors mention, dealt with aggregations in a comprehensive way and outlined several additional characteristics of group living based on social aspects such as viviparity, longevity, kin benefits – but these don’t get a mention in the text. There is another species of gecko’s that have also been reported to live in groups Hoplodactylus duvaucelii, various papers by Barry et al. which should be mentioned e.g Barry M., Shanas U. & Brunton D.H. (2014) Year-Round Mixed-Age Shelter Aggregations in Duvaucel's Geckos (Hoplodactylus duvaucelii). Herpetologica 70, 395-406. Lines 70/71/72. I am not sure the sentence makes sense? Perhaps the word “presents” should be “occurs in” and again “presenting should be “forming” Following the above, we hypothesized that when a lizard population, such as T. substituta, presents higher intraspecific density and scarcity of high-quality refuges, has thus increased likelihood of presenting aggregations as predicted by Mouton (2011). Lines 93-106 Study species: it would be useful to have an indication of the longevity of this species. There has been some interesting work looking at crevice availability and lizard aggregation by Michael et al and this should be mentioned in the introduction or discussion. Michael D.R., Cunningham R.B. & Lindenmayer D.B. (2010) The social elite: Habitat heterogeneity, complexity and quality in granite inselbergs influence patterns of aggregation in Egernia striolata (Lygosominae: Scincidae). Austral Ecology 35, 862-70. Line 197/198 change “94% of those times by a pair of individuals” to “94% of those times was a pair of individuals” or perhaps “94% of those times a pair of individuals was detected” Lines 280-281 There are many more intrasexual observations. For example Tiliqua rugosa pair up with the same mate year after year (e.g. Bull 1988). Bull C.M. (1988) Mate Fidelity in an Australian Lizard Trachydosaurus-Rugosus. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology 23, 45-9. See also Gardner et al. 2015. It would be useful to also highlight at the end of the manuscript that knowing if these aggregations are stable over time – different seasons and between years in the same season, would be of benefit. Cite this review as
Gardner M ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Sharing refuges on arid islands: ecological and social influence on aggregation behaviour of wall geckos (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2802v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 11, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
