Review History for Poppr: an R package for genetic analysis of populations with clonal, partially clonal, and/or sexual reproduction [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Poppr : an R package for genetic analysis of populations with clonal, partially clonal, and/or sexual reproduction To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 20th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 20th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on January 29th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 30th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Valeria Souza
·
Jan 30, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am very impressed with the speed and careful work on your manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 29, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Valeria Souza
·
Jan 20, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This is an important program to analyze clonal populations and we certainly welcome such an effort. However, please follow the suggestions given by the reviewers in order to make the text clear
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 20, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript reported the development of a new software in R package to analyze clonal population. The manuscript is well written, and I think the new software would be useful to the community who are studying the population genetics ad epidemiology of pathogens and diseases.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design and the illustration are relevant.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I have a few simple questions: 1. "function clonecorrect() will censor exact clones with respect to any level of a population hierarchy". How this function is sensitive to missing data or genotyping error (there is no explanation about it in the text)? 2. What is the algorithm / assumption in the detection and removal of phylogenetically uninformative loci in function "informloci"? What is the definition of uninformative loci in the example data? 3. Is it possible to change the size and branching pattern of the pie charts and nodes in the "custom" minimum spanning network? e.g. The most frequent genotype will be located in the central of the diagram by default! For example, may I move it up to the top right panel? 4. Does the software have sample data set? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Poppr: an R package for genetic analysis of populations with clonal, partially clonal, and/or sexual reproduction (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.281v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Miguel Navascués ·
Jan 16, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
While I value the work done by Kamvar and collaborators to produce the R package presented in the article (and I will welcome the publication of a software note about it) I am unsure it is within the scope of the journal (http://peerj.com/about/aims-and-scope/) which states that “PeerJ only considers Research Articles”. My recommendation (minor revision) will be applicable if the editor considers the article to be within the scope of PeerJ.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Kamvar and collaborators have produced an R package (Poppr) for the analysis of population genetic data that adds new useful functions that were missing from previous R packages (such as adegenet) and other software. Most of the tools implemented in Poppr allow for the management of data [e.g. import data from file with read.genalex(); split data into subsets with popSub()] or numeric and graphical summaries of the data [e.g. calculate linkage disequilibrium indexes with ia() and plot networks with poppr.msn()] that are not specific to data from clonal or partially clonal organisms. Only a group of tools allows to manage the presence of repeated genotypes in the sample, which could be useful for clonal organisms, but also to selfing populations or for error checking (e.g. same individual genotyped twice) in any context. Thus, I find a bit misleading the way the package is presented. I agree that many model-based statistical inference programs in populations genetics are based on either the Wright-Fisher model or the coalescent model (STRUCTURE, BEAST, IMa...) that are only applicable to haploid or sexual diploid organisms. Researchers working on partially clonal, clonal diploid and other mixed reproductive systems are in a disadvantage in that sense. However, calculation of summary statistics (genetic diversity indexes, population differentiation, genetic distances, linkage disequilibrium indexes...) does not depend on the reproductive model of the organisms. There is a plethora of population genetic programs (and some R packages) that calculate such summary statistics and these are available for researchers working on clonal organisms as well as those working on “standard” organisms. Poppr extends this range of options (which is great) to some additional summary statistics that might be more frequently used in the study of clonal organisms but is not specific to such organisms. To sum up, it seems to me that the article oversells the applicability to organisms with clonal reproduction and at the same time might prevent the usage of Poppr by researchers working on non-clonal organisms, who might ignore the article. I suggest to revise the text to give the reader a more clear picture of the true applicability of the package. Cite this review as
Navascués M ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Poppr: an R package for genetic analysis of populations with clonal, partially clonal, and/or sexual reproduction (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.281v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 20, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
