Review History for CTLA-4 polymorphisms associate with breast cancer susceptibility in Asians: a meta-analysis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History CTLA-4 polymorphisms associate with breast cancer susceptibility in Asians: a meta-analysis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 18th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 11th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on November 18th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 21st, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jiajie Diao
·
Nov 21, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your revision has significantly improved the manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 18, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jiajie Diao
·
Oct 11, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please attend to all of the reviewer criticisms very thoroughly.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 8, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In the submission “CTLA-4 polymorphisms associated with breast cancer susceptibility: a meta-analysis” Zhiming Dai et al. evaluated the relationship between four common CTLA-4 polymorphisms and breast cancer risk by a meta-analysis. They showed that rs231775, rs3087243 and rs4553808 polymorphisms in human CTLA-4 gene significantly associated with breast cancer susceptibility, particularly in Chinese population. I suggest the authors revise their manuscript, and show their new findings (especially the results beyond previous studies) explicitly in the revised manuscript. Specific comments: 1.The authors stated in Introduction section that “Numerous investigations have demonstrated that CTLA-4 genetic polymorphisms may have an association with human breast cancer risk, but the results were in contradiction. (Line 72, Page 5)”. However, they did not show what contradiction in previous studies is. They should explicitly discuss about the contradiction in previous studies, and show what this study contributes to this issue. 2.The authors stated in the Discussion section that “However, the results from those previous studies remain conflicting. (Line 175, Page 10)” The authors should discuss about what conflict in previous studies is, and show what this study contributes to this issue. 3.The authors should explicitly show their new findings, e.g., in the discussion or conclusion section, beyond previous studies. The authors stated in the discussion section that their results “confirmed the previous conclusion that the A allele of CTLA-4 rs231775 polymorphism has more possibility to increase breast cancer risk than G allele. (Line 185, Page 10)”, “the results were identical with our present research. (Line 192, Page 10)”, “In agreement with our result, previous meta-analysis also found rs4553808 may increase cancer risk especially for breast cancer. (Line 205, Page 11)”. However, what new findings of current study are beyond previous results? This new findings should explicitly show in abstract and conclusion section. 4.A few literatures should be cited for sufficient detail & information to replicate. For example, a) Citation for “Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines”; b) Citation for “Newcastle-Ottawa Scale”; Citation for “Woolf’s method”; Citations for “random-effects model” and “fixed-effects model”; Citations for “Begg’s funnel plot and Egger’s test”. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "CTLA-4 polymorphisms associate with breast cancer susceptibility in Asians: a meta-analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2815v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 11, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript titled with “CTLA-4 polymorphisms associated with breast cancer susceptibility: a meta-analysis” studies the relationship between four common CTLA-4 polymorphisms and breast cancer risk by a meta-analysis. The structure of the manuscript is consistent with the journal requirements.The authors argued that the studies on whether particular CTLA-4 gene polymorphisms are linked to cancer development or progression are not consistent(line 175). They should also discuss how they reconcile the inconsistency since their data analysis is based on published literatures.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The choice of methods is fine and the description of methods is good.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
My main concern is that the authors searched the English and Chinese literatures, and it turn out that in the 10 cases they studied, 7 were from China, 2 were from Iran, and 1 was from India. The authors have to interpret why there is even no single case from Europe, US or South America. Otherwise their samples could be strongly biased, and the conclusions are not solid (line 220-222). It is known that CTLA-4 protein is expressed in activated T cells and plays an essential role in the immune response. Could these be the choice of the key words? Otherwise the research has very limited interest for the general audiences.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
First of all the manuscript is poorly written and the abstract need to be rewritten. The authors have to summarize their main findings/conclusions and remove the detailed information from the abstract. The authors have to improve the English in the manuscript. For example, Line 3 in the abstract(and line 29): ”but the results remained contradictory.” Contradictory is not the proper word here. Line 43, change ‘associated’ to associate. Line 95-96, rewrite this sentence. Line 113, ‘analyses’ should be analysis. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "CTLA-4 polymorphisms associate with breast cancer susceptibility in Asians: a meta-analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2815v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 18, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
