Review History for Three new species of Bertolonia (Melastomataceae) from Espírito Santo, Brazil [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Three new species of Bertolonia (Melastomataceae) from Espírito Santo, Brazil To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 7th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 17th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on November 22nd, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 22nd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marcio Pie
·
Nov 22, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I believe that the modifications on the revised version fully address the points raised by the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 22, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marcio Pie
·
Oct 17, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please pay particular attention to the comments by the reviewers on the annotated files, particularly those indicated by Reviewer #1.
label_author_1
Fabian Michelangeli ·
Oct 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In this manuscript Bacci and collaborators describe three new species of Bertolonia, all from the state of Espiritu Santo in Eastern Brazil. Bertolonia is endemic to Eastern Brazil and ususally restricted to Atlantic Forests. This manuscript underscores large gaps in our knowledge of the biodiversity of this biome. The manuscript is well written and the species descriptions accurate and clear. The illustrations provide great additional information.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
My only comments are regarding the key. I think that some of the couplets can be improved by placing the entire organ before the characters, more like it would be written in a description than in prose. I have made several of these changes already, but the authors should check for consistency throughout. Also, the AOO and EOO are provided for the conservation assessments of first species, only AOO for the second and neither for B. ruschiana. Since the methods talk about AOO and EOO, and in the interest of consistency, these measurements should be provided for all three species. A couple of comments on terminology. The authors use the term laciniate for describing the sepal margins. I think that because laciniate means divided into deep narrow irregular segments it is hard to separate whether they are describing the entire sepal or just the margin; I would prefer to use the term fimbriate. Also, the term eciliate is used for describing the margin of the petals in some species. As I prefer to use terms that describe the plant for what it is and not for what it is not, I think that margin entire (or equivalent as necessary) would be better.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See above
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I am attaching the manuscript with some of these and additional comments and minor edits. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Michelangeli F ( 2016 ) Peer Review #1 of "Three new species of Bertolonia (Melastomataceae) from Espírito Santo, Brazil (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2822v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Paulo Jose Guimaraes ·
Oct 17, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
"No Comments".
Experimental design
label_ed_2
"No Comments".
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
"No Comments".
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript is well prepared and this is the result of an effort to knowledge of capixaba flora. I congratulate the fieldwork that was fundamental for the characterization of species and determine the degree of threat. A few corrections are highlighted in the manuscript. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Guimaraes PJ ( 2016 ) Peer Review #2 of "Three new species of Bertolonia (Melastomataceae) from Espírito Santo, Brazil (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2822v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 7, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
