Review History for Vascular plant biodiversity of the lower Coppermine River valley and vicinity (Nunavut, Canada): an annotated checklist of an Arctic flora [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Vascular plant biodiversity of the lower Coppermine River valley and vicinity (Nunavut, Canada): an annotated checklist of an Arctic flora To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 2nd, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 1st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on November 25th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 28th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Richard Cowling
·
Nov 28, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am delighted that PeerJ is publishing your paper and hope this opens the door for more submissions like yours.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 25, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Richard Cowling
·
Nov 1, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
All reviewers were very positive about this paper, and so am I. Comments are minor. There is a call to reduce the length of the manuscript; however, given its scope and content - and the fact that PeerJ is an online journal, I am not convinced that this requires serious attention.
label_author_1
Philip Rundel ·
Sep 29, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This submission definitely sets a record for me the longest manuscript at 610 pages that I have ever been asked to review. Having said that, I applaud the authors and editor of PeerJ in working out an arrangement where a manuscript of this size with a large body of color photographs can be published. To me this is a wonderful extension of the roles that PeerJ can serve in getting open source publications available for the research community. This is a highly detailed and scholarly treatment of the flora of the Coppermine River valley and surrounding area that is based not just on historical collections but also on a very detailed setoff new collections assembled over a month of field work in the study area. The bulk of the manuscript is the annotated checklist and associated color photographs which work well together, with the latter of high quality. The introductory and background text is also quite extensive and detailed in providing information of the environment and geography of the study area and the history of collections, followed by a detailed description of the new records and their significance. This material is all informative and well written, and he subject matter appropriate for PeerJ. If length is an issue, the text could certainly be shortened significantly It tends to be repetitive in describing some of the facts and figures on the collections. However, for a format as in PeerJ, I don’t know that this wordiness is really important. Overall, I am very impressed by this scholarly work and would like to see it available through publication in PeerJ.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
NA for experimental design. Rigorous field studies to complete project. Conforms to professional ethical standards.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Excellent and appropriate.
Cite this review as
Rundel PW ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Vascular plant biodiversity of the lower Coppermine River valley and vicinity (Nunavut, Canada): an annotated checklist of an Arctic flora (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2835v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Luc Brouillet ·
Oct 7, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall, the paper is well written and generally clear. I suggested a few minor corrections on the manuscript. Introduction: the authors were very thorough in the introduction. No stone was left unterned. But I wonder whether this is too detailed in some ways. Structure: The manuscript is very long and sometimes partly repetitive. It would gain in being pared down somewhat. I indicated a few areas where this could be done on the manuscript. Notably, historic aspects were partly redundant between the introduction and the history of botanizing. Long discussions for each species were interesting but sometimes were more than the necessary. All details need not be stated in a paper. I was particularly surprized to discover the barcoding protocol for species of Botrychium embedded within a species discussion. If the protocol has been used in other papers, would it not be sufficient to simply cite these and underline modifications? Figures: the figures associated to the text are excellent; it is nice to be able to see the landscape described and the associated vegetation. Raw data in the form of specimens cited were supplied. However, this is increasing dramatically the length of the paper. If PeerJ had means by which these could be accessed elsewhere, it would help.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The work represents an investigation of a little known area of Arctic Canada; it was thorough and well substantiated. It is certainly original in terms of floristic research. The authors justified well the nature of floristic research in their paper: it is difficult to address specific research questions in such a context. Nonetheless, the authors analyzed the data in terms of a model of arctic plant diversity, and this could have been put as a research question, with results and discussion. The paper clearly addresses knowledge gaps, however, and this seems adequate for such a paper. The quality of the field and taxonomic work is outstanding and of high standard. Methods were explained at great length and with much detail.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings presented here are novel, thorough and excellently documented. The data are very sound and well supported. The discussion is very long and at times includes material that would have been better summarized in table form, such as the long lists of taxa not present in the area when compared to other sites: would it be able to create one single table comparing all sites and refer to it in discussion? Although valualbe, it is incredibly tedious to have to read through long lists of names like this. And they increase the paper length considerably. The conclusion was to the point.
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Brouillet L ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Vascular plant biodiversity of the lower Coppermine River valley and vicinity (Nunavut, Canada): an annotated checklist of an Arctic flora (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2835v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Paul Catling ·
Oct 31, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
It is clear in this work that the authors are the world experts on flora of arctic Canada. The work is outstanding and sets a very high standard for floristic work of this kind that is needed in other parts of the Arctic. The introduction provides a complete and satisfactory basis. The design and layout are appropriate for floristic studies of this kind. The illustrations are of exceptionally good quality and very helpful. The submission is self-contained. All available raw data is included. The taxonomic and ecological notes are very accurate and indicate a complete knowledge of both historical and current work. New concepts, identification aids and classifications are provided, as well a new and baseline phytogeographic information. This work will be extensively used. It is well wriiten. Only few very minor corrections are required; these identified below by line number in the downloaded version: LineComment 404omit near 889spaniocarpa 1042what about Churchill, Manitoba 1113each of which supports 1109was it unglaciated with some spruce at the coast 1127omit the 1148-9italic 1326diminutive status or small size 1393change an to as 1455insert a 1549both couplets have pinnae overlapping 2409what corresponds to ovate or lanceolate above 3071records 3126from 3198report 3340Griseb. as below 3378dash after QFA 2249-50italic 4502italic 4507italic 4624comma after Banks 5008-9italic 5138best to use nana? 5270-71italic 5633-4italic 5755-6italic 5768italic 6009-10italic 6094repear epithet? 6095-6italic 6254put from after recorded 6534italic 6775no subsp. here? 6880delete (Crow) 6923subsp. ? 7127italic 7132insert a 7543insert The before subsp. 7663send to Costea? 7912bracket after diffusus 8078italic 8084Elven 8359italic 8427former Keewatin 8617sites 8676italic 8793latter taxonomy 8882italic 9189italic 9458Richardson 9530space before PhD 9748Keewatin 9767-68italic 9795Museum 9932space before PhD 9964space before PhD Fig. 50space before capillaris twice
Experimental design
label_ed_3
This primary research fills a huge knowledge gap and this is clearly outlined. The methods are adequately described. It is rigorous and surpasses current standards for work of this kind. A high technical standard is indicated here by the use of molecular techniques to assist in taxon identification as well as extensive examination of many collections and much literature prior to decisions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The findings are valid and supported by voucher material in a publicly accessible collection in the Canadian Museum of Nature (i.e. in a discipline-specific repository). Conclusions are appropriately stated and the information and overall conclusions are original.
Comments for the author
This is not only a signicant contribution to botanical science in the areas of taxonomy, ecology and phytogeography, it is also exemplary. Increasing interest in the environment of the far north will result in this work being extensively used, and it will have substantial impact. In particular it will will set an important new standard for much work of this kind that will be needed to better understand Arctic resources. Cite this review as
Catling P ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Vascular plant biodiversity of the lower Coppermine River valley and vicinity (Nunavut, Canada): an annotated checklist of an Arctic flora (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2835v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 2, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
