Review History for Effect of 2H and 18O water isotopes in kinesin-1 gliding assay [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effect of 2 H and 18 O water isotopes in kinesin-1 gliding assay To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 1st, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 17th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on January 30th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 31st, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alla Kostyukova
·
Jan 31, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your manuscript has been accepted, there are no comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 30, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alla Kostyukova
·
Oct 17, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
In your revised manuscript, please, address the reviewers comments.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 17, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors report the effect of isotopes of hydrogen or oxygen in water used as a media on motility of a kinesin-microtubule system. They observed a linear decrease of the gliding velocity of microtubules driven by kinesin using hydrolysis reaction of ATP upon increasing the ratio of D2O or H218O against light water. They insist that the effect could be explained by the change of microviscosity. The topic is interesting and the experiment is well done. However, the observed isotope effect is possibly explained by some other factors. One possibility is the hydrolysis rate of ATP. It is well known that heavy water induces a slower solvolysis. If authors think that viscosity effect is more decisive, they need to introduce all of the possibility and explain the reasons for thinking viscosity effect as the most provable one. In the conclusion section they mention about the importance of the heavy water effect in the application of motor proteins to microdevices. The stabilizing properties of heavy water are not a clear concept. Slower velocity of motor proteins can be a demerit in such devices. The authors should explain merits of usage of heavy water in the device in detail.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effect of 2H and 18O water isotopes in kinesin-1 gliding assay (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.284v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Erik Schäffer ·
Oct 14, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript by Andy Maloney and coworkers reports on kinesin-1 gliding assays in the presence of heavy-oxygen and heavy-hydrogen water. The authors observed a significant, linear decrease in microtubule gliding speeds as a function of increasing water isotope content. The data appears to be technically correct and sound. However, the manuscript would benefit from a few minor additions and changes which should be addressed before publication. 1. Please remove claims of novelty from the first paragraph. 2. It would be helpful to show some of the original data, i.e. representative traces of gliding position and speed versus time for the different buffer conditions. In this manner, other effects of the water isotopes, e.g. on pause frequency and duration may show up. Also, to show the effect of the various filters, the raw data and filtered traces should be shown. To judge the effectiveness of the KDE algorithm, a speed histogram of speeds determined by linear fits to segments of the raw data traces should be shown. In such histogram, the KDE value and the mean should be indicated when the same data is analyzed by the KDE algorithm. 3. Figure 1 and 2 should be combined in one figure with two panels to avoid a lot of duplication in text. 4. The text should be double-checked that 'heavy-hydrogen water' and 'heavy-oxygen water' are always referred to as such and not just by 'heavy-hydrogen' (e.g. in line 223 it should read 'heavy-hydrogen water buffer' or in the figure caption 1 & 2 in the abbreviations - there are more incidences). 5. Please define microviscosity for the non-specialist. 6. Delete sentences that refer to future work (line 309 & 324). 7. In the figure caption of Fig. 1 & 2, it should read: 'The solid line is a linear fit to guide the eye and does not...' 8. How were the averages calculated in Fig. 3? Were all data shown included in the average? Error bars are shown in the figure. Please delete the wrong statement in the caption.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments - see basic reporting.
Cite this review as
Schäffer E ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effect of 2H and 18O water isotopes in kinesin-1 gliding assay (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.284v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 1, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
