Review History for Why choose Random Forest to predict rare species distribution with few samples in large undersampled areas? Three Asian crane species models provide supporting evidence [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Why choose Random Forest to predict rare species distribution with few samples in large undersampled areas? Three Asian crane species models provide supporting evidence To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 10th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 7th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on November 29th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 1st, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Stuart Pimm
·
Dec 1, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for attending to these changes quickly.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 29, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Stuart Pimm
·
Nov 7, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As you can see, both my reviewers like your paper and so do I. Please fix these minor problems and return the revision as soon as you can. When PeerJ accepts a paper it gets published "as it is" (i.e. without further copyediting). I recommend that you use a programme such as Grammarly to check your English to ensure that it's the best it can be.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 2, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article is well written and answers an very important question. The structure is clear and figures are relevant.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This study has a very good design. It carried out model evaluation with different measures and with two independent test datasets. So the comparison of models is legitimate. However, there are still some parts that the authors need to address. For the 21 variables that were selected to build models, you need to show if high correlation exists between some variables. The collinearity will influence the validity of your models. For the validation, please report detail number, percentage on how many test data are correctly predicted.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data and methods used in the study are appropriate and valid.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I recommend to accept this paper with minor revisions. This paper answers a good question with a careful design. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Why choose Random Forest to predict rare species distribution with few samples in large undersampled areas? Three Asian crane species models provide supporting evidence (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2849v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 5, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript requires to be looked over and edited throughout for better english.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Line 158: Some additional information on how variables were reduced is necessary. Was there clear evidence that variables were not autocorrelated prior to running the models? Line 177; also lines 213-214: A check to see if the pseudo-replicated points did not overlap with points obtained with satellite tracking will be important.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I like how the authors have included both the strengths and the shortcomings of their methods ensuring that the findings have high value for conservationists wishing to use the statistical methods described. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Why choose Random Forest to predict rare species distribution with few samples in large undersampled areas? Three Asian crane species models provide supporting evidence (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2849v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 10, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
