Review History for Contrasting molecular and morphological evidence for the identification of an anomalous Buteo: a cautionary tale for hybrid diagnosis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Contrasting molecular and morphological evidence for the identification of an anomalous Buteo : a cautionary tale for hybrid diagnosis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 5th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 23rd, 2016. The first revision was submitted on December 1st, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 1st, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Scott Edwards
·
Dec 1, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for addressing all the reviewers' comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 1, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Scott Edwards
·
May 23, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I have received two thorough reviews of your paper and both reviewers have substantive comments to improve the manuscript. Reviewer 1 suggested caution in ruling out an advanced backcross bird, whereas reviewer 2 was concerned with the overall flow of logic, and the perhaps unjustified urge to call this bird a hybrid. I realize that these two assessments are somewhat contradictory but, as reviewer 1 notes, who knows what light advanced sequencing techniques would shed on this issue. Or perhaps you feel that your genetic analysis already rules out some of the possibilities raised by the reviewers. In general, both reviewers are very clear about the need to temper several statements and to clarify how this paper is an advance over Pyle (2004).
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 20, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
All comments are included in General Comments for the Author.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
All comments are included in General Comments for the Author.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
All comments are included in General Comments for the Author.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
PeerJ #10497 on an anomalous Buteo. The authors address a specimen from California that was thought to be the first state record of the eastern Red-shouldered Hawk, Buteo l. lineatus. Plumage and measurements suggested a possible hybrid between Red-tailed and Red-shouldered hawks. Genetic evidence, however, showed that it was just a phenotypically atypical Red-shouldered Hawk. The only problem I have with the manuscript is that you do not have the power to rule out hybridization as a cause for the bird’s odd phenotype. Developmental anomalies in birds are not uncommon, but not in suites of characters as you describe and illustrate here. So in the paragraph beginning on line 167 I’d be a lot more cautious. Lavretsky et al. 2016 (Molecular Ecology 25:661-674) recently modeled how quickly genomic evidence of hybridization is lost in backcrossing. With so few loci, such a loss in your dataset would likely be faster, perhaps F2-3 (you could model it if you wanted using your data). You may also want to look at some of Graves’ detailed analyses of hybridization. Two in particular seem relevant: Proceedings of the Biological Society of Washington 1990 (103:6-25) and 1996 (109:373-390). Although they lack a genetic component, there is good discussion of hybrid phenotypic characteristics that is too often overlooked. I think your bird is probably a hybrid backcrossed several generations with Red-shouldered. Come back to it again in a few years when genomes are bit more cost effective and I’ll bet there will be some Red-tailed alleles in there. Minor issues: Line 48: Please give the date and locality of the specimen. Line 65: Can you be clearer on the procedure of “We centered and scaled the variables...”? Log transformation seems like a more common procedure. Lines 80-82: Provide sample sizes in parentheses after each named taxon. I am concerned that it looks like microsatellite genotypes were taken from the literature and that the taxa were not compared in direct, simultaneous runs on the same instrument using the same protocols to ensure accurate genotyping. Lines 94-95: Unclear here – a) are these the same sample sizes from 80-82; and b) usually STRUCTURE is run without assigning individuals to groups, and that is how this analysis should be run first – it would give the reader confidence that the molecular dataset is sufficiently strong to distinguish the possible parental taxa. If this was done already by the Hull 2008a & b papers, give a summary of that so we are clear that these data provide definitive assignments for the parental taxa. Line 101: You ran two analyses. Both at K = 2? Lines 196-197: No – the situation is much more complex. Novel genes can introgress if the fitness of the hybrid/backcrossed individual is equal to or greater than the parental form (not exclusively if a selective advantage is present, as stated). And neutral changes can percolate quite effectively, and these represent evolutionary changes as well. Lines 176-187: For all these pairs, Hawks and Buzzards should be lower-cased hawks and buzzards. Line 297: I don’t see hallux in Table 1. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Contrasting molecular and morphological evidence for the identification of an anomalous Buteo: a cautionary tale for hybrid diagnosis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2850v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
John Sterling ·
May 21, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
A hybrid from a unique pairing in central California of a female Common Black-Hawk and a male Red-shouldered Hawk has been documented and the paper is currently under review for “Western Birds” but will soon be “in press” and could be cited by the authors. I can supply the manuscript to the authors if requested. The introduction provides background to support the well-defined hypothesis. The authors seem to overstate the importance of their investigation with the statement that “hybridization is regularly occurring in the genus”. I am not sure what “regularly occurring” means, as hybridization in Buteo seems to be a rare occurrence based upon very few documented cases. With the thousands of birders and raptor biologists scrutinizing the identification of countless Buteos in North America, I’d suspect that many more cases would be documented if hybrids were “regularly occurring” enough to “illuminate the ongoing evolutionary processes within this genus”. “107 The putative hybrid specimen (WFB 4816) differed in plumage from all adult Red-shouldered 108 Hawks, and, specifically, from adult eastern ones.” This sweeping statement should be revised to state that it differed from all specimens analyzed for this manuscript. They should also temper their statements to state that it differed from typical individuals of the species—not all individuals (need to keep open the possibility of oddly plumaged birds in the population).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The instigating premise of the paper is a refutation of Pyle et al.’s (2004) conclusion that the specimen was of a Buteo linneatus linneatus. The authors of the current paper dismiss this conclusion without critically evaluating that initial conclusion and its supporting claims. They leap into their hybrid hypothesis yet circle back to accept the original conclusion based upon genetic results yet do not offer much explanation for how they were misled into believing this was a hybrid nor do they adequately rectify the disconnect between Pyle et al.’s (2004) conclusion and their initial rejection of that conclusion. After all, Pyle et al. (2004) stated that the plumage characters were diagnostic of B. l. linneatus. The fact that Pyle et al. (2004) analyzed 183 specimens vs. 76 in this manuscript is not mentioned. Perhaps some specimens evaluated by Pyle et al. (2004) fit the plumage of this featured specimen? Some readers may wonder if some of the “anomalous” plumage characters could be explained by the possibility of this specimen being a second-year female. The authors should at least address and discount, if necessary, this possibility. Also the authors state that this specimen is too large for a B. l. linneatus, yet all measurements, except for the hallux, fit well within the range of females in the specimens that they examined and conform to Pyle et al.’s (2004) results as well, so it seems a bit disingenuous to state that the specimen’s measurements “comprise compelling evidence” that it was a hybrid.
Cite this review as
Sterling J ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Contrasting molecular and morphological evidence for the identification of an anomalous Buteo: a cautionary tale for hybrid diagnosis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2850v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 5, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
