Review History for Resistance to starvation of first-stage juveniles of the Caribbean spiny lobster [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Resistance to starvation of first-stage juveniles of the Caribbean spiny lobster To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 20th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 7th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on November 30th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 2nd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
James Reimer
·
Dec 2, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been well revised, and is now acceptable for publication. Please note two small changes in the attached PDF, which should be done at the proof stage if not earlier. I look forward to seeing the published version of this work!
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 30, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Reimer
·
Nov 7, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have heard back from three reviewers, all of whom feel your work needs some editing and changes before being acceptable for publication. In particular, reviewers 1 and 3 offer some concrete comments, and I would like to see detailed responses to their points.
label_author_1
Caleb Gardner ·
Oct 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No problem here but I've noted some concern in trying to extrapolate the results too far. This relates to experimental design because comparison between seasons was a reasonable design for testing the effect of season but wasn't ideal to test effect of temperature. So need to be careful in making comments such as the results have implications for understanding effects of climate change. I'd note that results were very clear which indicates good design overall, good sample size etc.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
1.L55 “However, in various parts of the Caribbean, including Mexico, catches of P. argus have suffered a substantial decline since the late 1990s (Aguilar et al., 2003; Ehrhardt, Puga & Butler, 2011)”. Consider redoing this sentence. FAO data for all landings of the species doesn’t show a substantial decline. Appears more like catches have been stable since 1990s or perhaps a slight decline. It’s probably true that catches have declined substantially in some parts of the Caribbean but if overall catches are stable, then it’s probably also true that other areas have had increases. Catches are not necessarily a good indicator of abundance anyway, which is the point of this sentence. I think there’s a need for research on juvenile stages regardless of trends in recruitment so this sentence isn’t really necessary anyway. http://www.fao.org/fishery/species/3445/en 2.Discussion of temperature needs to make the point that this is an extremely stable system. Temperature does vary between the warm and cold seasons but barely. The fact that any effect was detected with such a small range is surprising for me at least. Presumably P. argus are exposed to much higher / lower temperature in other parts of their range so the temperature effect reported here would be that more elsewhere. 3.L 221. “consequently” doesn't make sense in this flow of text. 4.L274. Sentence seems to be missing words. Isn’t clear. 5.L277. I disagree that the results have “implications for (understanding effects of?) climate change”. Juveniles were exposed to only a very narrow range of temperatures between seasons and the experiment was not structured to consider extremes beyond those encountered during the experiments. There’s nothing in the method that tells us whether either measure of starvation would alter with climate changes. 6.I’d be tempted to remove the last sentence of the discussion. These justifications for the research (eg aquaculture) seem to be drawing a long bow. Aquaculture operations aren’t currently commercial and if they were I think it’s safe to assume they’ll supply food to satiation and not include starvation in the management. This PeerJ journal is happy to publish research for the sake of improving knowledge so it doesn't need these sort of justifications that other journals seem to want (for some reason). Cite this review as
Gardner C ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Resistance to starvation of first-stage juveniles of the Caribbean spiny lobster (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2852v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 20, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
- The manuscript could be written with more clarity, it seems a little ambiguous specially in abstract material and methods section. - The introduction and background is sufficient and relevant. - The manuscript is well structured - Figures are relevant - Results relevant to the hypothesis are presented - The appropriate data are available but should be more organised
Experimental design
label_ed_2
- The submission describe very important original primary research - research question should be more clear - The investigation have been conducted rigorously and to a high technical standard - Method section is a little lengthy and would better to shorten - The research have been conducted in conformity with the prevailing ethical standards in the field.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
- The data are robust and controlled, the statistical method are correct. - The conclusion is better to be stated separately
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
comments are stated in manuscript word text file - Please make abstract clear and brief specially in lines 30-37 - Lines 93-100 would be better to transfer to material and methods or write in proper way as goal of the study - How did you eliminate the effect of biological variation of postlarvae (e.g, genetic differences, difference in thermal preference or starvation resistance) in your experiment Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Resistance to starvation of first-stage juveniles of the Caribbean spiny lobster (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2852v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Oct 31, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
In general, the manuscript is well written and presented. It clearly identifies its aims and the purpose of the study, that being the PNR or PRS of a novel species or life stage of spiny lobster. PNR and PRS analysis is a well-established techniques and has been long examined in crustacean biology. In that sense this study has limited novelty other than for another species of life stage that has been overlooked. However, considering the likely high biological importance of re-feeding of the post-puerulus, this study does provide an appropriate contribution to the field. The figures in the review draft were too small but I assume this will be corrected in the published manuscript. The article referenced an appropriate level of published papers however should consider the revision of “Smith, G., Kenway, M., Hall, M., 2010. Starvation and recovery ability of phyllosoma of the tropical spiny lobsters Panulirus ornatus and P. homarus in captivity Journal of the Marine Biological Association of India 52, 249.”
Experimental design
label_ed_3
As previously mentioned PNR or PRS analysis is a well-established techniques and the authors have done a good job in their experimental design. I am particularly impressed with the high number of experimental replicates. Method are generally well described however could benefit from some more detail about culture systems. Particularly the level of ozonation needs to be better defined as in appropriate seawater ozonation can have dramatic influence on the development, moulting and survival of crustaceans.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The discussion and conclusions of the study are generally sound. However, I question if the authors have sufficiently discussed possibly the most profound finding of the study; that starvation resistance is improved in warmer temperatures. This finding is counter intuitive considering the strong effect of temperature on metabolic rates and consequently energy use. The study would have greatly benefited by more advance measures of lobster energy utilisation and storage including metabolic rate and carcass biochemical/energy composition which should be considered in future studies. In the absence of these measurement I suggest that the authors should better speculate on the physiological basis of improved starvation resistance at warm temperature. This could include an assessment of total energy use at differing temperatures using published metabolic and Q10 values in relation to intermoult duration. Authors should also review other published work on the effect of starvation and refeeding on lobster metabolism and energy storage, for example see: Simon, C.J., Fitzgibbon, Q.P., Battison, A., Carter, C.G., Battaglene, S.C., 2015. Bioenergetics of nutrient reserves and metabolism in spiny lobster juveniles Sagmariasus verreauxi: Predicting nutritional condition from hemolymph biochemistry. Physiological and Biochemical Zoology 88, 266-283.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Resistance to starvation of first-stage juveniles of the Caribbean spiny lobster (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2852v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 20, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
