Review History for Identifying zooplankton community changes between shallow and upper-mesophotic reefs on the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef, Caribbean [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Identifying zooplankton community changes between shallow and upper-mesophotic reefs on the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef, Caribbean To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 20th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 22nd, 2016. The first revision was submitted on December 2nd, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 2nd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Dec 2, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for improving your manuscript and publishing in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 2, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Nov 22, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please consider all the suggestions in the revised manuscript version. Furthermore, the English should also be checked.
label_author_1
Randall Kosaki ·
Nov 14, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Overall, this manuscript is well-written and adheres closely to the templates and instructions for authors of PeerJ. The writing is clear and succinct, and needs few edits. My primary comments surround additional literature citations that would add some depth and breadth to the introduction and discussion sections. Line 27: The authors cite Hinderstein et al. 2010. This was not a review paper, it was the equivalent of an introductory chapter to a series of workshop-produced papers. I suggest citing the primary literature here to support the statement on the depth range of light-dependent corals, e.g. Maragos and Jokiel 1986, Kahng and Maragos 2006. Line 57: The authors should start with a geographic review that is greater than just the Caribbean. Consider citing Brockovich et al. 2008 and similar papers first to illustrate that dominance of plankivores in MCE fish assemblages is a global phenomenon. Line 65: In addition to Lesser et al. 2010, I suggest citing other earlier papers such as Mass et al. 2007 and Fricke et al. 1987 to support the possibility of increasing heterotrophy with depth. Line 153: I suggest citing additional references on the MCE refugium hypothesis, e.g. Hoegh-Guldberg et al. 2007, Lindfield et al. 2016.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Overall, the field sampling techniques were appropriate to the question at hand. As the authors note, however, this method only sampled nocturnal plankton biomass and diversity. Since this was stated up front, the results are what they are, and can stand on their own. I do not see this as a shortcoming of the study. 40 m depth is barely mesophotic, and some disagreement exists within the mesophotic research community regarding whether a one-size-fits-all upper depth limit is appropriate (especially given that some systems seem to show a pronounced turnover in species composition at 50+ m). This fact could be acknowledged somewhere in this paper. Nevertheless, the findings here indicate that there are differences between 15 m and 40 m plankton communities, and these results can stand on their own without quibbling over the definition of mesophotic. Line 92: When two traps were deployed at a given site on a single night, how far apart were they? How far away is the light emitted by the LEDs visible underwater? Line 101: It would be useful to note whether samples were sorted using the naked eye, or using some sort of optical enhancement such as a dissecting scope.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The statistical analyses are robust, and are appropriate to the question and data sets at hand. Presenting the data as both bar charts and nMDS plots give the reader a well-rounded view of how the 15 and 40 m communities differ.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Most (if not all) mesophotic papers begin with a statement regarding the scarcity of data from MCEs, and how a large majority of what is known about coral reefs is derived from the upper 20% of their depth range. The authors take this one step further, and point out that within the mesophotic research field, there are numerous undercharacterized communities and taxa. The structure of zooplankton communities is one of the biggest gaps in knowledge of MCEs, and yet I would guess that most mesophotic researchers have considered plankton in only the most cursory of manners. Understanding the structure of the zooplankton communites across a depth range is critical to our understanding of major ecological themes, including the role of heterotrophy for hermatypic corals at depth, and the dominance of planktivorous fishes at mesophotic depths. Thus, although this paper poses a very simple, straightforward question, I believe its importance to the MCE field far outweighs the manuscript’s modest length. I congratulate the authors on a simple, well-done study that will constitute a significant contribution to the field. Cite this review as
Kosaki RK ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Identifying zooplankton community changes between shallow and upper-mesophotic reefs on the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef, Caribbean (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2853v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Richard Pyle ·
Nov 17, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
- Use "fishes" as plural when referring to multiple species (e.g., abstract "...or mobile taxa such as fishes.") - There are some slightly inappropriate uses (or non-uses) of commas and other sentence structure and grammar (e.g., "coral reef" when used as a compound adjective needs a hyphen, but when used as a noun does not), but not significant enough to warrant individual corrections. It might be helpful if the authors sought the review of an experienced editor to ensure correct punctuation and grammar throughout.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results are interesting and appropriately analyzed. They help address largely unknown questions about zooplankton distribution across both shallow and MCE reefs, and represent an interesting contrast to the few other studies on this issue in other regions.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No Comments Cite this review as
Pyle RL ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Identifying zooplankton community changes between shallow and upper-mesophotic reefs on the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef, Caribbean (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2853v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 20, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
