Review History for The fishing and natural mortality of large, piscivorous Bull Trout and Rainbow Trout in Kootenay Lake, British Columbia (2008–2013) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The fishing and natural mortality of large, piscivorous Bull Trout and Rainbow Trout in Kootenay Lake, British Columbia (2008–2013) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 10th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 10th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on November 24th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 6th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jack Stanford
·
Dec 6, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revision was credibly responsive to the reviews which smoothed out the paper quite nicely. The paper is now complete but an interesting point is raised by reviewer 1 (Price); that is, is the fertilization program on Kootenay Lake actually influential on the population cycles given in this paper. I'd be interested in a direct communication from you about this issue including any papers on the subject that you may know about: drjflbs@gmail.com.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 24, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jack Stanford
·
Oct 10, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please respond to the comments of the two reviewers.
label_author_1
Michael Price ·
Sep 7, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I feel that a significant limitation of the study is the lack of comparable data for resident Kokanee populations. In several places, it is suggested that changes in Kokanee numbers have resulted in declines of trout, yet the authors provide no concrete data to support this. In fact, the data provided for Kokanee spawners does not show any relationship with Rainbow Trout for the years 1990-2010, yet this is entirely ignored. This should be discussed. It may be that Kokanee are a driver for Trout populations, but I do not believe that the authors have provided any strong data to support this. At the very least, I believe that this omission (limitation) should be stated up-front in the MS, and reiterated near the end of the Discussion section (i.e., Management Implications).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Well written and described paper, with substantial data on Rainbow Trout and Bull Trout populations in Kootenay Lake. I was surprised not to see any mention of the natural history of Kootenay Lake (i.e., it is a human engineered lake system, with consequences for aquatic productivity). I’d like to see a few sentences included in key sections of the MS. When was the dam (dams?) built, and how might that have altered fish populations and aquatic productivity. Also (unless I missed it), the authors fail to suggest why it is that Rainbow Trout survival is associated with spawning, but not Bull Trout. It is a key finding of their work, and I for one am interested to know why there is this apparent difference. This should be included. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Price M ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "The fishing and natural mortality of large, piscivorous Bull Trout and Rainbow Trout in Kootenay Lake, British Columbia (2008–2013) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2874v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 5, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is well-written and the results are presented in a very clear fashion. There is sufficient referencing of the literature that this study can be placed in context of similar studies elsewhere. My only suggestion for improvement of the presentation is to combine figures 10 and 11 by overlaying the changes in kokanee abundance on the trout abundance.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This is a very well executed study, done on an interesting and socially important lake. The overall question is fairly mundane in the grand scheme of things, but the results that are specific to this ecosystem are clear and will be important for management of these resources. While the effects of size on survival rates, probability of spawning, etc. are given relative to the length of the fish, it would be very useful to provide a size-at-age function in this manuscript in case other scientists would like to use these results as a function of age. I do not understand why catchability is expressed on a per ha basis. I would simply express these results on a lake basis (ie probability of capture per rod*day). While mathematically correct to express these per ha, it makes little practical sense to do so.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The development and application of the model seem valid and the discussion of assumptions is thorough (though maybe a bit dull). The results are clearly valid given the experimental design and the treatment of the data. I think it is worth a brief discussion of how the sizes of kokanee have changed during their recent crash. Is there any evidence of density-dependence in growth of kokanee? There should be and this response should be noted because both size of kokanee and their density will affect the potential feeding rate of the trout. It is certainly possible that kokanee can grow out of the window of vulnerability to predation by trout when they are found at low densities in the lake. I encourage some speculation here. On line 514 it is stated that there was a 'decline in natural mortality'. Is this correct. I think there was a decline in survival (ie an increase in natural mortality).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Nice paper overall. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "The fishing and natural mortality of large, piscivorous Bull Trout and Rainbow Trout in Kootenay Lake, British Columbia (2008–2013) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2874v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 10, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
