Review History for Epidemiological research on parent–child conflict in the United States: subgroup variations by place of birth and ethnicity, 2002–2013 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Epidemiological research on parent–child conflict in the United States: subgroup variations by place of birth and ethnicity, 2002–2013 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 28th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 5th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on December 7th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 13th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Lanjing Zhang
·
Dec 13, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have considered your responses and revised manuscript and feel that the article is now Acceptable. Thanks for your understanding and patience!
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 7, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Lanjing Zhang
·
Oct 5, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
This is an interesting study focusing on the prevalence of parent-youth conflict in various age groups and ethnic groups. Despite its potential, the manuscript seems to have some concerns to address before being accepted for publication. In addition to the comments from the other reviewer, please also consider the following 'review level' comments from myself. Major concerns: 1)Sample selection bias. The latest US census showed that 8.5% of US population is naturalized US citizens and a similar portion of the population is non-US citizen (of course, foreign-born). [http://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/demo/tables/foreign-born/2013/cps2013/2013-asec-tables-nativity.pdf] However, the included population had different portion/percentages of the US born and Foreign born subjects (e.g. 5% of non-Hispanic foreign whites vs about 15% overall foreign born reported in the Census data). This is a potential limitation. 2)Since the authors studied the frequency/prevalence of the PC conflicts in a time period of more than 10 years, it may be considered to compare the changes in the trends (or difference in the difference) of various groups. 3) It is known that race is linked to foreign born status and socioeconomic status. Therefore, income-levels of the household, female-employment status and probably should be included in the multivariate analyses (adjusted-OR computing). Minor concerns: 1)Abstract has over 300 words, and should be shortened according to the PeerJ instruction. It should in my view show the numerical data including 95% confidence intervals and p values. 2)It is agreed that parent-children may be better fit for the manuscript than parent-youth. 3)Table 1. Only about 15-27%v of the non-Hispanic Asians are Chinese-Asian, who share much cultural and moral characteristics with other Koreans, Japanese and Singaporeans. What is the rationale of separating Chinse from other Asians? Please provide the sum of each columns. Two columns showing all US born and all foreign born subjects, respectively, are needed. 4)Table 2, ethnic self-identification groups in the title probably should be replaced with self-identified ethnic groups. 5)Some grammar and writing style issues (e.g. to sum up in my humble opinion should be in summary, in conclusion or taken together). Careful proof-reading is needed.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is an interesting epidemiologic study on the parent-children conflicts and tis associated factors. The author investigated whether the US born status is link to these conflicts in a multivariate model. Some concerns are raised for the authors’ consideration. Major points: 1.Actually, the study of parent-child conflict is a very interesting subject whether in the United States or across the globe, and the results of the paper are convincing to show us the epidemiological characteristics of parent-child conflict. However, the aim of the study is unclear and the related introduction and discussion could be expanded to further justify the study and promote its sociological impact. The authors should explain why there is any significant difference between Subgroup variations by place of birth and ethnicity. 2.Some very important opinions listed in the discussion section need further exploration. For example, as a sociological paper, the reasons of the parent-youth conflict in the United States between Subgroup variations by the place of birth and ethnicity should be analyzed in more detail. Moreover, the corresponding intervention measures may be considered to mitigate the conflict. 3.Table 1 should have shown the numbers and percentages of children with reported parent-child conflict of each group. 4.What was the reference group in the race/ethnicity variable in Table 2? 5.The authors may also consider include additional factors such as the socioeconomic status of the family, the work status of the mother, and education levels of the parents. 6. The authors’ data cover an 11-year time frame. Were there any changes in the incidence and its trends of Parent-child conflict in various ethnicity groups? 7. Some writing style and grammatical errors are present. Minor points 1.Some references could be updated. 2.Parent-child conflict seems more appropriate than parent-youth. (see Journal of Family Issues 29(6):780) 3. The manuscript also needs meticulous review and check, especially those key numbers in the results. Obviously, there is a minor error about the number used in results line 311. 4.Table 2 title: frequent parent-youth conflict probably should be replaced with frequency of parent-child conflict. Moreover, because only 3 additional covariates were included, they probably should have been reported. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Epidemiological research on parent–child conflict in the United States: subgroup variations by place of birth and ethnicity, 2002–2013 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2905v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 28, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
