Review History for Neck biomechanics indicate that giant Transylvanian azhdarchid pterosaurs were short-necked arch predators [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Neck biomechanics indicate that giant Transylvanian azhdarchid pterosaurs were short-necked arch predators To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 19th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 12th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on December 9th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 13th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mathew Wedel
·
Dec 13, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your diligence in addressing the concerns of the reviewers. I am satisfied with the revised manuscript, and I am happy to accept it for publication in PeerJ. The decision of whether or not to publish the peer reviews alongside the paper is entirely yours, and will not affect how your paper is handled going forward. However, I encourage you to do so. This is a great example of strong manuscript being made even stronger by a constructive review process. More importantly, all three reviewers chose to sign their reviews, and making the reviews public allows the reviewers to receive more credit for their efforts, and also contributes to the emerging culture of fairness and transparency in editing and peer review.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 9, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mathew Wedel
·
Sep 12, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
All of the reviewers found the manuscript to be generally sound and well-structured. Each flagged some areas for improvement. I've considered their suggestions and all of them seem apt and reasonable. I only have one comment of my own to add. Since you are considering the disparity in azhdarchid body forms, and in particular the cervical vertebrae, you may want to at least briefly reference BMR P2002.2, an extremely elongate azhdarchid cervical from Hell Creek, described by Henderson and Peterson in the March 2006 issue of JVP. I believe that it would have had a higher length/width ratio than any of the vertebrae currently plotted in Figure 1E. You're not required to discuss that specimen, but it is an interesting counterpoint from the opposite end of the proportional spectrum. Please address all of the points raised by the reviewers in your revised manuscript or in your rebuttal letter. I'll look forward to seeing an even better version of this work soon.
label_author_1
Elizabeth Martin-Silverstone ·
Aug 31, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In general I think this has been done very well. The one thing I am surprised has not been mentioned is any of the medium-sized azhdarchid material from Alberta, even just as an introduction to where azhdarchids come from and their diversity. There is a pretty well preserved partial skeleton with both a nice cervical vertebra and humerus that could be mentioned.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The only comment I have here is that it is not made clear how the authors calculated the cortical thickness (or internal radius) for the specimens that seemed to be complete in the middle of the shaft. Additionally, cortical thickness can vary in a single section, so has it been averaged? If the thickness ranged from 2-6mm in the vertebra, why was 5mm used as the thickness at this point? And how did they determine the thickness at this point?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Conclusions appear to be well supported by both the literature and the data presented here. No major concerns with the findings or interpretations.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In general, I'm very happy and excited about this paper. I think that it presents some very interested and novel information about azhdarchids, further supporting the idea that we don't fully understand them. I have added comments of specific things to an annotated PDF, but I have 3 general concerns/comments to point out: 1. Make sure that you are consistent and correct with the terminology of stress/strength/bending/etc. In engineering terms they all have very specific definitions and can mean different things if you use the wrong one. General strength is not the same as bending strength or stress. And stress itself can refer to several types (e.g. compression, tension and torsion). 2. I feel that other medium-large size azhdarchids (e.g. the ones in Alberta and Quetzalcoatlus sp.) should at least be mentioned somewhere as further examples of azhdarchids and diversity just in terms of completeness of background info. The Alberta material especially has a very nice cervical vertebra and humerus that could be compared to this material as a comparison of some smaller animals. Just an idea, but not major. 3. Not a big thing at all, but I'm hesitant in the identification of Hatzegopteryx for this vertebra. As it's stated several times how weird it is, and there is no overlapping material with it and what is identified as Hatzegopteryx, it seems weird to then say that Hatzegopteryx has a neck unlike other pterosaurs found so far. Why could it not be something different? I'm conservative with this kind of thing though, so it isn't a major concern, just a comment. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Martin-Silverstone E ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Neck biomechanics indicate that giant Transylvanian azhdarchid pterosaurs were short-necked arch predators (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2908v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
David Hone ·
Sep 4, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
NA
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I am not qualified to comment on the calculations made for bone wall strength etc. but they certainly seem appropriate and the documentation and description of the materials used is adequate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
NA
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a simple and straightforwards paper (not that this is a criticism) and there are no major issues with this. I have only a few relatively simple suggestions that will improve the flow of the manuscript and add a few small details to clarify some points. Please see the attached document for comments and areas to look at. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Hone D ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Neck biomechanics indicate that giant Transylvanian azhdarchid pterosaurs were short-necked arch predators (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2908v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Eric Snively ·
Sep 11, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The writing and approach are clear. I try not to impose on style too much, but in a few cases you can tighten up the language ("by the fact that"= "because"; "we note that" is unnecessary). A few suggested additions to literature on neck muscles. There's been a lot of action in the last decade or so. However, no need to change the text or interpretation, except for one or two suggested additions.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
There are some subtle but important corrections to structural terminology. I like the indexing of structural property results to body mass. Define what's being compared allometrically to what (minor point).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Mechanically valid approach, results, and interpretations.
Comments for the author
The research has exciting and evocative implications for azhdarchid behavior. Shoebills and marabou storks have deep lower jaws compared with the skeletal and life restorations of Hatzegopteryx. Were they really that slender? Perhaps hulk them out a bit. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Snively E ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Neck biomechanics indicate that giant Transylvanian azhdarchid pterosaurs were short-necked arch predators (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2908v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 19, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
