Review History for Selection and evaluation of reference genes for analysis of mouse (Mus musculus) sex-dimorphic brain development [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Selection and evaluation of reference genes for analysis of mouse (Mus musculus ) sex-dimorphic brain development To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 10th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 26th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on November 22nd, 2016 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 14th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Heather Etchevers
·
Dec 14, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for adding the requested improvements to the original submission. Looking forward to seeing this helpful work appear in our journal.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 7, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
All comments have been taken in consideration. No further modifications are necessary.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
All comments have been taken in consideration. No further modifications are necessary.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
All comments have been taken in consideration. No further modifications are necessary.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
All comments have been taken in consideration. No further modifications are necessary. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Selection and evaluation of reference genes for analysis of mouse (Mus musculus) sex-dimorphic brain development (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2909v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 22, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Heather Etchevers
·
Jul 26, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
After a delay for which we apologize, we have successfully obtained an informed external review, and I have provided review-level comments of my own in an attached document. Please respond to all points of both reviews if you choose to revise and resubmit. I agree that your article is well-written but it would have more impact and significance; and differentiate itself better from similar work, with the suggested changes and discussion. Thank you again for submitting your work to PeerJ.
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a well-written manuscript describing the methods used for evaluation of the reference genes. The conclusions are important and should be of benefit to those using Q-RT-PCR in this field.See general comments for the author.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The manuscript has clear objective and the experimental design has been carried out with the ethical standards. See general comments for the author.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data are robust, statistically sound, and controlled. See general comments for the author.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this manuscript Tanya Cheung & Megan Wilson evaluated a panel of genes to find the suitable reference genes for normalization in quantitative RT-PCR analyses of Mus musculus sex-dimorphic brain development. The rationale behind their work is based in the observation that genes used as reference controls can vary based on cell type and conditions, thus making comparisons within and across publications very difficult. Therefore, the aim of the current manuscript is to demonstrate the best set of the suitable reference genes for normalization in quantitative RT-PCR analyses. The demonstration of variability associated with commonly used reference genes, including Gapdh & Actb, is not novel – in other fields of biology this has led to similar efforts to identify better reference genes. With RNAseq becoming more common, large-scale datasets will inevitably provide a more stable platform for determining relative, and possibly even absolute, gene expression profiles. Nevertheless, validity qRT-PCR studies will still be required, and this technical report would represent the first survey to identify more stable reference genes in a Mus musculus sex-dimorphic brain development. The main issue related to this article is the number of reference genes used. The authors tested only five reference genes, and over the five, three of them (Gapdh, Actb, Hprt) are commonly used and are problematic due to their instability in different mice models and tissues as showed in many published articles. Therefore, since the main goal of this report is to find the best genes for the use as a qRT-PCR reference, it is perplexing why only five reference genes are tested in this model. The current availability of different algorithms (i.e. normfinder, geNorm, best keeper) to rank the tested reference genes against each other and to show the highest stable and lowest stable genes, gives the authors the choice to test more than 5 genes; 5 genes being not enough to make strong conclusions. Therefore, to strengthen their manuscript, it is important and highly critical for the authors to address this concern as part of a substantially revised version by adding at least 5 additional reference genes. Kouadjo et al 2007 (PMCID: PMC1888706) reported a wide range of housekeeping genes in mouse tissues. In that article the authors can find many reference genes that can be tested in their model to improve their manuscript. Additional comments: •The authors have to test the primer specificity and efficiency for each potential gene. They did not show the primer efficiency in the tested model. Efficiency % and R2 need to be shown. •Three algorithms used are enough to rank the potential genes, but it would be great if the authors could calculate and show the overall comprehensive ranking to demonstrate the best gene. •Figure 2: The authors tried to show Raw Ct values for selected reference genes from RT-qPCR using cDNA from male and female brain tissue. But, the authors did not test if there is a statistical difference between the different tested groups for each gene. It is highly recommended to do statistical analysis for raw ct values. • Figure 3: the authors have to simplify their data presentation by showing the data in order such as start with high stable gene and end with least stable gene for each algorithm. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Selection and evaluation of reference genes for analysis of mouse (Mus musculus) sex-dimorphic brain development (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2909v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 10, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
