Review History for ‘Mystery big cats’ in the Peruvian Amazon: morphometrics solve a cryptozoological mystery [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History ‘Mystery big cats’ in the Peruvian Amazon: morphometrics solve a cryptozoological mystery To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 24th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 11th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on February 4th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 4th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
David Roberts
·
Feb 4, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Looking forward to it being published. Please carefully check the proof.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 4, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Roberts
·
Oct 11, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
An interesting paper. As the reviewers not there is nothing wrong as such with the paper, fig 2 could do with redrafting, but it would be nice, although not essential, if you could address the criticisms of CVA-based approach.
label_author_1
Norman MacLeod ·
Oct 9, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This aspect of the ms is fine. The English style, usage, and grammar adhere to a high standard. The figures need attention, however, the icons, axes, and labels are far too small to be understood easily by readers, either in hard copy or online. These need to be redrafted to make them clearer.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This is somewhat problematic in my view. The question under consideration here is not one of outstanding importance and the findings are largely negative. As written this looks more like a subject that would be suitable for a technical report than a contribution to the scientific research literature. Of course, this does not invalidate the findings which look OK to me. But the experimental design is decidedly 'old fashioned' (we're not talking geometric morphometrics here) and no new ground — either conceptual, mathematical, or biological — is being broken. Perhaps more importantly, the authors have not even gone to the trouble of addressing the criticisms some recent authors have leveled at their CVA-based approach or attempted to confirm the validity of their findings in light of alternative data-analysis procedure suggestions made by these critics (I'm thinking here of the recent 2011 Evolutionary Biology article by Mitteroecker and Bookstein). I believe the authors can make a case for themselves despite these criticisms. But it's clearly not appropriate to ignore them or pretend they don't exist.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Despite its limited scope and the negative results this ms would appear to qualify for publication under this heading. I believe the authors could make this into a more impressive and useful contribution to the morphometric literature than they have done date. But according to these criteria there is no reason to reject it outright. But see my comments above.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
None that I haven't covered above. Cite this review as
MacLeod N ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "‘Mystery big cats’ in the Peruvian Amazon: morphometrics solve a cryptozoological mystery (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.291v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 3, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The reference to Table 1 in the text (line 79) is confusing when there is no table associated with the main paper. I have no problem with the measurement system being documented in a supplementary file. However, in the supplementary information file, the caption to the figure showing the measurements states that numbers shown are described in Table 1, which they are not. I would advise adding to Table 1 the numbering system used in the supplementary figure and giving a brief morphological description of each measurement in the table, rather than a long, cumbersome table caption, detailing all of the measurements. I thought the in-text figures were informative and clear. Please check the use of commas and semi-colons in lists of in-text citations. Sometimes commas were missing between author names and dates, and sometimes commas separated lists of references rather than semicolons. Generally the paper was very clearly written. However, in line 93, I found the end of the sentence confusing: perhaps rephrase as “unbiased by information from the unknown specimens to be tested”?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The problem was clearly articulated, the methods employed appropriate, and the findings relevant and of interest. A few minor points require clarification, however. The authors should make clear (lines 83-85) where the comparative dataset came from. Was it collected by them for the purposes of this study, or gained from another source? Also, who took the measurements on the casts? Were there multiple observers and was any test of intra- or inter-observer measurement error undertaken?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Results appear statistically sound, clearly described, and the conclusions drawn are robust as a result. In the Discussion, the authors mention intra-specific variability in mandibular morphology as a possible explanation for the lower classification accuracy for the mandibular relative to the cranial data (lines 134-135). It would be nice to see either a reference to a study that has empirically demonstrated this to be the case, or indeed a quick analysis of co-efficient of variation of cranial versus mandibular shape using their comparative dataset would make this point more convincingly.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I found this an elegant, interesting and informative study. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "‘Mystery big cats’ in the Peruvian Amazon: morphometrics solve a cryptozoological mystery (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.291v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 24, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
