Review History for Evolutionary origins of the emergent ST796 clone of vancomycin resistant Enterococcus faecium [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evolutionary origins of the emergent ST796 clone of vancomycin resistant Enterococcus faecium To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 28th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 21st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on December 9th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 16th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Nicholas Loman
·
Dec 16, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your considered responses to each of the reviewer comments and the improved manuscript. I now consider the manuscript ready for publication. Thank you for sending this exciting work to PeerJ!
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 9, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Nicholas Loman
·
Nov 21, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As you can see both reviewers are enthusiastic and have recommended publication of your manuscript. Both have suggested a set of minor improvements. I would be grateful if you could respond in full to their suggestions and update the manuscript where indicated. In particular please ensure that the datasets and supplementary information are accessible before resubmission.
label_author_1
Willem Van Schaik ·
Nov 8, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Some minor issues (further specified below).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusions of the paper are supported by the data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript by Buultjens et al. describes a genome sequence analysis of an isolate from a recently emerged E. faecium lineage (ST796) that has emerged a nosocomial clone in Oceania. The manuscript provides interesting information on the evolution of this lineage and provides insights into the genes that may contribute to the success of ST796 in the hospital environment. My comments below are intended as suggestions for the authors to further improve their manuscript. l. 44. It would be more appropriate to refer to Homan et al., 2002 (PMID: 12037049) as this is the study in which the E. faecium MLST scheme was introduced. l. 119. Explain the abbreviation BRIG (BLAST Ring Image Generator). l. 173: I believe ‘their’ should be ‘its’ l. 179: It is unclear what is meant with ‘two reported versions’. I believe this refers to the authors’ previous study (Howden et al., 2013 in mBio)? Please expand and/or add references. l. 194, Cox et al., 2005 describe cytolysin, a protein that is produced by some strains of E. faecalis. Cytolysin is not produced by E. faecium so it is unclear what hemolysin the authors refer to here. l. 199 – 201: The line that starts with ‘In comparison …’ is incomplete so it is not entirely clear what point the authors want to make. They could consider adding a figure with different versions of the esp gene to (the supplementary materials of) the manuscript. l. 202 - 205. It is unsurprising that genes encoding gelatinase, aggregation substance and hemagglutinin are not found in this strain, as these virulence factors are specific to E. faecalis (articles reporting their presence in E. faecium generally use flawed methods for species determination in Enterococcus). Please add the information that these genes are found only in E. faecalis or delete these lines. l. 212. Write ‘the easy by which’ l. 298. It is interesting that the authors describe potential recombination events that were not detected by ClonalFrameML. Were these sites identified by other algorithms for the detection of recombination in microbial genomes (e.g. Gubbins or BratNextGen). l. 401. The line ‘Overall, no single plasmid ortholog was specific to ST796, however these plasmids in their entirety are diagnostic of the ST555-ST796 lineage.’ is somewhat ambiguous. Do the authors mean to say that the combination of these plasmids is only found in the ST555-ST796 lineage? Anyway, it is tricky to state that these plasmids can be ‘diagnostic’ of this lineage, as it is likely that there are strains out there that have lost one or more plasmids, something which cannot be ruled out on the basis of the limited geographic sampling and relatively low number of strains in this study. Table 2: msrC and aac(6')- aph2' should be written in italics. Fig. 2. This figure is somewhat confusing, possibly because of the placement of the panel labels, which do not seem to match with the figure legend. Panel B may be better described as ‘Conservation of recombining segments in the ST555-796 and ST796 MRCAs.’ to highlight that this figure does not show recombination, but the variable presence of the recombining among the different E. faecium isolates l. 695. Write E. faecium in italics. Table S1: labels columns L-O with BAPS (not BAP) Cite this review as
Van Schaik W ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evolutionary origins of the emergent ST796 clone of vancomycin resistant Enterococcus faecium (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2916v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 21, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Minor comments: 1. ENA or SRA identifier for the deposition of raw reads for the Illumina and PacBio sequencing were not provided, as would be expected for this sort of study. 2. NCBI BioProject ID for genome project not provided, as I would have expected. 3. The two Figshare addresses did not work so I could not look up those figures.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this thorough, well designed and executed study, the authors sequenced an ST796 strain of Enterococcus faecium using Illumina short-read and PacBio long-read technologies, inferred the full genome sequence of the chromosome and associated plasmids, verified it with optical mapping, and performed comparative genomic analyses in order to comment on events in the genome evolution of this isolate. The aims of the study are stated clearly. The analyses are technically sound, using standard, appropriate methods. The text, methods, analyses, figures and tables are clear, appropriate, concise and easy to follow. I am recommending that this study be accepted for publication without amendments, but I would encourage the authors to re-read the final paragraph of the discussion (L442-445) and perhaps speculate on how this study will inform future studies. Stated in another way, the fundamental issue with this, and similar studies, is that we already know that bacteria that are successful in a hospital environment have experienced genomic changes involving lateral gene transfer, recombination, and genomic rearrangements. Describing these changes in detail, in a particular isolate or outbreak is useful, but what does it really tell us? How does it help us treat, contain or prevent future outbreaks? How can this information help us understand or predict general principles of bacterial evolution in hospital environments? How can we use this information to understand what order these evolutionary events occurred in, and thus, at what point could these events be detected (if at all) and used to prevent the final genomic events that lead to a new, very successful lineage? Did all these genomic events happen almost at the same time or did they evolve sequentially over several generations? What bacterial "species" did the acquired DNA come from? Where in the host or the environment are the reservoirs for the acquired DNA? What would the perfect data set look like that could start to answer these sorts of questions? Very minor points: 1. GIT acronym is used before first described. 2. In Table 1, a footnote could be added to indicate whether "-" means zero, data not known or not relevant. 3. When using Prokka, the quality of the annotation would depend on the references in the sequence database. Could the authors list the other E. faecium genomes in the database used? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Evolutionary origins of the emergent ST796 clone of vancomycin resistant Enterococcus faecium (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2916v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 28, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
