Review History for Sequence variability of Chrysanthemum stunt viroid in different chrysanthemum cultivars [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Sequence variability of Chrysanthemum stunt viroid in different chrysanthemum cultivars To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 5th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 31st, 2016. The first revision was submitted on December 20th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 22nd, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Encarna Martinez-Salas
·
Dec 22, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised version of the manuscript has satisfactorily addressed the reviewer´s comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 20, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Encarna Martinez-Salas
·
Oct 31, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Thank you for giving us the opportunity to consider your manuscript. Your paper has been reviewed by two referees who have raised important criticisms, which are detailed below. We will therefore consider publishing your manuscript if you can accommodate their suggestions in a revised version or explain satisfactorily why their comments are invalid.
label_author_1
José-Antonio Daròs ·
Oct 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors of this manuscript performed an analysis of Chrysanthemum stunt viroid (CSVd) sequence variability in different chrysanthemum cultivars. This analysis is quite interesting and will contribute to better understand the biology of this viroid species. However, authors should re-write some parts of the manuscript to make it more realistic. My main concern is about the reiterative use of the word quasispecies, which is also included in the title. Although it is sensible to consider that when a viroid infects a plant its progeny behaves as a quasispecies, I recommend authors to avoid this term, which has more complex implications according to Eigen’s model, and in most parts of the manuscript write better: sequence variants or sequence variability. In methods, some questions need to be clarified. Finally, in discussion, some conclusions are unjustified and they should be removed.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Experimental design is fine. However, in cloning and sequencing (line 86), authors must inform about the enzymes used in the RT-PCR amplification. In a sequence variability analysis, it is important to know whether error prone polymerases or high-fidelity polymerases were used. Moreover, details of how the consensus sequences were built are needed (line 95). Authors should also emphasize where their amplification primers map in the viroid sequence and the implications about the experimental sequence variability in the region covered by the primers.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Findings seem valid.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
These are some suggestions to improve the manuscript: 1. Change the title, replacing quasispecies by sequence variability. 2. Last sentence of the abstract must be absolutely removed. 3. Line 122: how many plants of each cultivar were tested positive for CSVd? Include a table with this relevant data. Data not shown is not a good idea in this particular case. Also the “at least” wording is not appropriate. If you had problems diagnosing plants; explain these problems. 4. Lines 189-190: remove this sentence. There is nothing in this study that suggests CSVd sequence variability arises from host genetic variability. 5. Lines 190-192: I also recommend deleting this conclusion. Control experiments are needed to connect sequence variability with environmental conditions. Variability of CSVd amplified from plants grown in different regions may also result from historical contingencies. 6. Lines 215-217: check this sentence. The pathogen is CSVd, not the infected plants. Cite this review as
Daròs J ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Sequence variability of Chrysanthemum stunt viroid in different chrysanthemum cultivars (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2933v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 31, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this work, authors have sequenced distinct isolates of Chrysanthemum stunt viroid (CSVd) from a variety of chrysanthemum cultivars from Korea (except one from China). Authors claim that this is the first report providing evidence of the quasispecies of CSVd in a single chrysanthemum plant as well as different cultivars (page 2, lines 20-21) and, indeed, assessment of that issue seems to have been the main objective of the work (page 4, Iines 13-14). However, evidence for quasispecies nature of CSVd populations has been previously obtained (Nabeshima et al., 2015, J Virol Methods ; Torchetti et al., 2012, J Plant Pathol 94) and interpopulation variation has been also reported somewhere else (Yoo and Palukaitis 2013, Virus Genes 46; Gobatto et al., 2014, J Plant Pathol 96). In that sense, I am not sure that there was any knowledge gap to fill in and I do not feel results are adding much to the previous knowledge on this issue. The work could have benefited, for instance, from the inclusion of information on disease symptoms and potential correlations with genetic population structure. Moreover, discussion is too long, not very well structured and some conclusions are not clearly supported by the data. In this sense, it is not clear at all that genetic variation is affected by the cultivar or by the cultivation region, particularly taking into account that a few variants are very common and the predominant ones in many cultivars. Moreover, clusterings shown in phylogenetic trees seem to contradict those potential conclusions, as clades do not correlate with either geographic origin or cultivars (Fig. 1D and 2A). I would suggest revision of the whole text and avoidance of unnecessary speculation. On the other side, all the manuscript needs to be carefully revised for language editing, there are grammatical errors, redundancies and very inaccurate expressions.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The methodological approach is standard (RT-PCR, cloning and sequencing of viroid variants) as is the analysis of the obtained sequences. In page 7, positions of RT-PCR primers on CSVd genome should be indicated. Moreover, the primers align on a CSVd region that might present sequence variation and corroboration of this issue should be done with another pair of primers.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See comments above
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Sequence variability of Chrysanthemum stunt viroid in different chrysanthemum cultivars (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2933v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 5, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
