Review History for The prognostic value of tumor length to resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: a retrospective study [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The prognostic value of tumor length to resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: a retrospective study To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 25th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 16th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on December 23rd, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 28th, 2016.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Cheorl-Ho Kim
·
Dec 28, 2016
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your careful revision with incorporation of the criticisms. Although your study is limited in the sample size, the trial study on the prognostic factors associated with survival is interesting in further generalization as a retrospective study. Therefore, the present Editor responsible for your manuscript would like to accept to publish in the PeerJ. We will also thank you for your prospective study triggered from the present work. Cheorl-Ho Kim Editor
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 23, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Cheorl-Ho Kim
·
Nov 16, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Your manuscript has been reviewed and found to be of potential acceptance by some reviewers. However, the manuscript is not acceptable in its present form for publication in PeerJ. The reviewers hae delineated several deficiencies and recommend major revisions which may render th work suitable for publication. Please review the peer review comments carefully and edit the manuscript to respond to them. Please attach to your revised manuscript a point-by-point response to the reviewer's comments along with an explanation of any request of the reviewers that you do NOT address in your revised manuscript. Sincerely, Prof. Cheorl-Ho Kim, Ph.D Editor The Peer Journal
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 1, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In the current study, 498 ESCC patients who underwent surgical resection as the primary treatment were selected to evaulate the value the prognostic value of tumor length using univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression models. The result is that the patients who had larger tumor length (>3 cm) had a higher risk fo death than the rest patients. The authors conclude that the tumor length is an important prognostic factor for ESCC patients without receiving neoadjuvant therapy.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Retrospective study; all patients were not treated by neoadjuvant therapy; univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression models
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Although the tumor length appears to be predictive for survival in this study, there is no independent validation cohort to confirm the findings. Moreover, most patients with ESCC receive neoadjuvant treatment in these days and the effect of the neoadjuvant therapy had not been investigated in this study. Nevertheless, this study contributes to the field of ESCC and all findings are appropriatly stated. This study should be intresting for the readers.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In the current reprospective study the authors state that the tumor length is predictive for survival in patients with ESCC. However, there is no independent validation cohort to confirm the findings. Moreover, most patients with ESCC receive neoadjuvant treatment in these days and the effect of the neoadjuvant therapy had not been investigated in this study. Nevertheless, this study contributes to the field of ESCC and all findings are appropriatly stated. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "The prognostic value of tumor length to resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: a retrospective study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2943v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 7, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors should explain the detail for each figure.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors should explain the detail for methods.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In the current study, the authors conclude that the tumor length is an important prognostic factor for patients with ESCC. The study was interesting, however, the authors have not add something new to the literature. There are many studies regarding tumor length for patients with ESCC. 1. In the current, the authors used two methods to identify the optimal cutoff value for tumor length (ROC curve and regression tree). The authors should explain the detail how to determinate the cutoff point by these two methods. The authors should add the figures for these two methods, and indicate the sensitivity and specificity for these two methods. 2. The authors confirmed that 3cm as the optimal value. The authors should add TNM stage in the current study. Can this value apply to the different TNM stage. 3. The authors should add the survival and p-value for figure 2. 4. The authors should explain the detail for figure 3. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "The prognostic value of tumor length to resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: a retrospective study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2943v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 25, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
