Review History for The avian fossil record in Insular Southeast Asia and its implications for avian biogeography and palaeoecology [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The avian fossil record in Insular Southeast Asia and its implications for avian biogeography and palaeoecology To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 21st, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 1st, 2014. The first revision was submitted on February 7th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 7th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
John Hutchinson
·
Feb 7, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Well done! I am convinced that this now should be published.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 7, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
John Hutchinson
·
Feb 1, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Congratulations on having only minor revisions to do- the reviewers really liked the paper! Please complete these soon and I can then accept the paper- I see nothing that would require further review. However I agree with the first reviewer that you need to clarify methods/data, sharing as much of the data involved in the study as possible: "However, there is no explicit reference in the article on methods of collection or to any databases that were consulted (e.g. Fossilworks?). This should be included in a short Materials and Methods section, following the specification of research aims (above) to show how these data were collected and to ensure reproducibility."
label_author_1
Christopher Stimpson ·
Jan 31, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is clearly written with a few, typos and corrections. The introduction and background are sufficient and, as this paper is a synthesis, the literature is appropriately referenced in the text and supplementary materials (but see comments under experimental design). There is scope for expansion and clarification in some instances. General points In general, the use of binomial and vernacular names is a little inconsistent. In some cases, one or the other is used, or both (see annotated pdf). I recommend that vernacular and binomial is used at the first mention e.g. mossy-nest swiftlet (Aerodramus salanganus) and any following reference to use the vernacular only (more accessible for the non-specialist) e.g. mossy-nest swiftlet etc. Following zoological convention, vernacular names should not be capitalised (as they are in some, but not all instances here (see annotated pdf) unless they are a noun e.g red-breasted goose not Red-breasted Goose Australian shelduck not Australian Shelduck References to taxonomic authors are also generally not present in the text. In the review of fossil sites, many bird families are referred to in the vernacular e.g. raptors, owls, swiftlets etc . In the discussion of avian biogeography that follows this, only taxonomic families names are given: Accipitridae, Strigidae, Apodidae. This may be confusing for the non-specialist reader. Citations There are instances of citations out of chronological order (lines 11, 17, 98), although I assume this will be dealt with in the editorial process. Line 33: Citation: van Tet et al. 1986 in text. 1989 in references (line 353). Line 343: correct “Palaeogreography” to “Palaeogeography” Text Line 57: “three species of swiftlets in the genus Collocalia”: later in the article, the mossy-nest swiftlet identified from Palawan is referred to as Aerodramus salanganus, and in the supplementary material as “Aerodramus salangana”. Perhaps re-word “three species of swiftlet: one in the genus Aerodramus and two in the genus Collocalia” and change “salangana” to “salanganus” in the supplementary table. Line 78: delete “owls” Line 110: “Especially the occurrence of extinct taxa may reveal successful colonization events, and thus past dispersal routes, while diminishing the (artificial) importance of other lineages”. This sentence would benefit from re-working and clarification for the non-specialist. Firstly, the mention of “successful colonization events” in the context of taxa that are now extinct may be confusing. Secondly, it is not clear which “other lineages” (i.e. extant taxa? Birds? Mammals?) are “artificially” important. Why and in what way? Line 191: “Their continuous……indicates”. Insert “presence” Line 197: “persisted at least locally”: Stimpson, 2012 provides a more robust case for local persistence of forest around Niah than the swiftlet article (Stimpson, 2013). In the interests of a balanced discussion, see also Hunt et al. 2012 for an alternative viewpoint on Pleistocene palaeoenvironments of Niah (references below). Hunt, C.O., Gilbertson, D.D., Rushworth, G., 2012. A 50,000 year record of late Pleistocene tropical vegetation and human impact in lowland Borneo. Quaternary Science Reviews 27, 61-80. Stimpson, C. M. 2012. Local-scale, proxy evidence for the presence of closed canopy forest in North-western Borneo in the late Pleistocene: bones of Strategy I bats from the archaeological record of the Great Cave of Niah, Sarawak. Palaeogeography, Palaeoclimatology, Palaeoecology 331/332, 136-149. Supplementary material Change “salangana” to “salanganus” (two instances) Change “Reiss” to “Reis”
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The article would benefit if the specific research aims and questions were “spelt out” in the introduction at line 20. These should be specified, i.e. 1)Sites and taxa are described 2)Synthesis of the implications of fossil evidence for avian biogeography and dispersal routes specifically 3) Palaeoecological implications The literature that this article draws on is appropriately referenced in the text and supplementary materials. However, there is no explicit reference in the article on methods of collection or to any databases that were consulted (e.g. Fossilworks?). This should be included in a short Materials and Methods section, following the specification of research aims (above) to show how these data were collected and to ensure reproducibility.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
All data that is described is provided in the supplementary table. Much of the article reads as speculative (though this is perhaps implicit in the title?) and is peppered with "may" or "seems" to indicate/suggest. However, I interpret this as a measured approach to drawing inferences from fossil data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This review succeeds in summarising the current avian fossil record of Southeast Asia and via synthesis seeks to identify trends in avian biogeography and palaeoecology as far as the available data will permit. Discussion of these trends reads as rather speculative (arguably this is implicit in the title of the article) and the text is peppered with phrases such as "may" or "seems" to indicate/suggest - but this is interpreted as a measured approach to drawing inferences from fossil data. There are a few typos and issues with the structure and content of the article that require re-working either for clarification, to follow convention or to meet the requirements of the journal (an annotated pdf of the manuscript is attached and see comments under basic reporting, experimental design and validity of findings.) Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Stimpson C ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "The avian fossil record in Insular Southeast Asia and its implications for avian biogeography and palaeoecology (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.295v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 28, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper gives for the first time a good overview and review of the fossil birds in Southeast Asia. The paper is well organized. Has the most recent literature. The discussion of the chapters: avian biogeography , avian dispersal and palaeoecological implications are convincing. The conclusions are in line with the discussion. To be short: a good, well organized paper and a valuable contribution to the field of science of fossil birds in Southeast Asia. Further no comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "The avian fossil record in Insular Southeast Asia and its implications for avian biogeography and palaeoecology (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.295v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 21, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
