Review History for Influence of different types of sessile epibionts on the community structure of mobile invertebrates in an eelgrass bed [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Influence of different types of sessile epibionts on the community structure of mobile invertebrates in an eelgrass bed To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 11th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 28th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on December 30th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 2nd, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Magnus Johnson
·
Jan 2, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You have provided a thorough response to the reviewers comments - thank you. I picked out a few minor edits that can be dealt with at the proofs stage: 229 and 252 fitted rather than fit? 295 amphipods 390 rostrata
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 30, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Magnus Johnson
·
Nov 28, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers suggest that this manuscript merits minor revisions and they have made some excellent suggestions to improve it. 93 State what the relationship is between eelgrass and tunicates/scallops 229 and 252 "fitted" rather than "fit" 295 two gammarid amphipods 374 providing rather than provisioning? 416 A little explanation here of how you think green algae may impact on species eveness?
label_author_1
Sue Hull ·
Nov 24, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The standard of reporting is in the main, fine - however there are some areas that might need rewording to improve clarity and these are marked on the ms. Some of the discussion is a little long and could do with shortening, especially when not directly related to the main findings. The structure is appropriate and conforms to the journal templates. There is good use of the literature and the study does add to the main body of work surrounding the subject area.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
There are some clear research questions, but in some places these are not very clearly worded or the sampling regime surrounding this detailed effectively. One concern is that only three 'replicates' were analysed at each station and that some of the fauna on the eelgrass was not sampled as it did not directly use that environment or the epiphytes on the seagrass. If the authors can show that this is typical of research in the field (in terms of sample size) then that is fine, but it is a little light on replication. Whilst crustaceans might not feed on the algae - would they not use it as shelter and feed on the herbivores? This needs to be more clearly justified. Overall the methods section needs to be reworded in places to ensure the methods applied were relevant and repeatable.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The overall study shows that there was a relationship between some taxa and the environmental factors. The modelling is appropriate but does not imply cause and effect, so care is required on some of the discussion material and for some taxa, it might be that they are discussed in the light of all factors influencing them rather than just one at once. Overall - there are some interesting things in here and the paper should be published, but I would recommend a little more care in the discussion when discussing the relationships of taxa with one environmental factor.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall this is an interesting study, and is worthy of publication although I am a little concerned about the replication of the sampling. The authors should be allowed the opportunity to present a revised ms clarifying some of the queries outlined on the main ms. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Hull S ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Influence of different types of sessile epibionts on the community structure of mobile invertebrates in an eelgrass bed (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2952v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 28, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
See author comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
See author comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See author comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper by Momota provides a very thorough investigation on the interactions between the epibiont communities of Zostera marina and the associated motile invertebrates. The study is well planned and constructed and deserves publication in PeerJ, I do however have a number of minor comments that require consideration. Title: I feel the work is quite novel showing potential cascade impacts of one faunal group on another. Why not make this title bolder that clearly states the key finding of the work. Abstract: well written, might be useful to have a few quantitative results in their rather than just X influences Y? Intro: This has a huge amount of references in it. This seems too much. Results: Would be nice to see some of the correlations presented visually, especially the interacting ones. Discussion Given the importance of the fauna in the present study to fish it would be nice to see more discussion on this. This is of key importance given some of the observed relationships between seagrass density and fish assemblages (e.g. McCloskey et al 2015 PeerJ). Study has implications for the resilience and functioning of these systems. Would be nice to see a discussion of this and reference to key recent works on resilience and feedbacks in seagrass (e.g. Maxwell et al Biol Rev, Unsworth et al Mar Poll Bull, Eklof et al 2016 J app Ecol). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Influence of different types of sessile epibionts on the community structure of mobile invertebrates in an eelgrass bed (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2952v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 11, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
