Review History for Off the scale: a new species of fish-scale gecko (Squamata: Gekkonidae: Geckolepis) with exceptionally large scales [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Off the scale: a new species of fish-scale gecko (Squamata: Gekkonidae: Geckolepis ) with exceptionally large scales To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 26th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 2nd, 2016. The first revision was submitted on December 30th, 2016 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 3rd, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tomas Hrbek
·
Jan 3, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Authors, I read through your revised version, and I am happy to recommend Acceptance. Thank you also for including Figure 1. Congratulations on a fine study. Cheers, Tomas Hrbek
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 30, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tomas Hrbek
·
Dec 2, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors, Thank you for submitting a fine MS to PeerJ. Both referees suggested minor revision, and I am also recommending minor revision. I do not see any major issue that needs to be addressed. I also agree with the first reviewer that it would be easier for readers if they had access to a phylogeny in this paper. So I suggest that a phylogeny showing the OTUs of Lemme et al. (2013), but also including information from Hawlitschek et al (2016), be provided in this paper. I suggest collapsing individuals sequences into OTUs and assigning species names to OTUs if they exist and showing their geographic distribution. I think this would make it much easier on the reader to situate themselves and would graphically represent the motivation of this study. Also it would be important to deposit the image data in a public database. Otherwise a job well done, and I look forward to receiving your revision shortly. Sincerely, Tomas Hrbek
label_author_1
Jesse Grismer ·
Nov 15, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors describe a new species of Geckolepis from northwest Madagascar that had been shown to be phylogenetically independent in a previous study. Not only is the holotype in great condition (especially for Geckolepis), but they provide a though examination of it and its comparison to other species in the genus for future studies. This paper was a great mixture of old school taxonomy with modern morphological imagining techniques and I thought it was awesome!
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Excellent.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Valid. However, they need to show phylogenetic placement of G. megalepis with a distribution map of the new species in Madagascar. They may have provided one but I couldn't find it.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Great piece of work on a really cool group of geckos! Here are a few comments meant to help improve the overall quality of the paper. Contact me if you like. Minor Comments - On the figures comparing the different skulls of the species I think it would help if the diagnostic differences were colored so they stand out as soon as you see the figure. -Lines 58-60 are a bit hard to follow and may need to be rewritten. -This is a great paper because it also provides an example on how to approach similar questions in other geckos groups that have tear away skin, like Gehyra. I think you could add a sentence in the discussion about this and how this combination of old and new techniques could be beneficial for other groups. - Get rid of the fill-in pattern on the gecko in Fig 1b. Simple outline of the lizard would look better. Major Comments - Many sections of this paper (ie lines 58-73) refer to Fig. 2 of Lemme et al. (2013) and the placement of OUT D in that phylogeny, and this phylogenetic position is one many line of evidence that indicates this lineage is a new species. The sections that make reference to this phylogeny in the text are hard to follow without the tree and I feel if there was a some version of fig 2 form Lemme et al. (2013) that would make these section easier to follow for the reader. I feel anytime you can show a species phylogenetic position in the same paper that it is described it always make the paper better and helps future taxonomic custodial work. Cite this review as
Grismer J ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Off the scale: a new species of fish-scale gecko (Squamata: Gekkonidae: Geckolepis) with exceptionally large scales (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2955v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Edward Stanley ·
Nov 22, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
See below
Experimental design
label_ed_2
See below
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See below
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper, describing a new species of fish scaled gecko based on previous genetic work by some of the authors and a combination of traditional and CT-based morphology, is a well written, beautifully illustrated and interesting manuscript. The detailed skeletal morphological descriptions are particularly interesting, and provide an excellent example of the utility of CT for extracting novel data from rare and important specimens. I have a few, general comments and some small suggestions that may improve the paper. Firstly I think that an additional figure early in the paper, showing the locality and phylogenetic relationships of the Geckolepis complex, may help strengthen the introduction and help frame the phylogenetic and biogeographic context in the description- perhaps this could incorporated a modified phylogeny combined with a map of the sampled localities and type localities. I would also like to see a discussion of the size and morphology of the regenerated body scales and/or scales on regenerated tales. Thirdly, it may be constructive to discuss the ossification of the scales- I am aware of a paper by other authors (Paluh and Bauer) that is, or soon will be, in press that addresses this point in great detail, but a brief discussion of why these scales might be mineralized, and how this could potentially augment the effective shedding of skin, (citing Paluh and Bauer’s findings) could add an additional angle of interest to this paper. I have added number of smaller suggestions to the main text in a word document that is attached here. The figures are good, though I would make the scale bar in figure 4 smaller: 10mm would be more suitable. Finally, I would suggest that the authors, in the spirit of open access, make their datasets (mesh files and CT slice data) available online through a morphological database like www.morphosource.org or an equivalent. Ed Stanley Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Stanley EL ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Off the scale: a new species of fish-scale gecko (Squamata: Gekkonidae: Geckolepis) with exceptionally large scales (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2955v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 26, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
