Review History for Geography shapes the phylogeny of frailejones (Espeletiinae Cuatrec., Asteraceae): a remarkable example of recent rapid radiation in sky islands [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Geography shapes the phylogeny of frailejones (Espeletiinae Cuatrec., Asteraceae): a remarkable example of recent rapid radiation in sky islands To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 29th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 15th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on January 5th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 9th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mikhail Gelfand
·
Jan 9, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The reviewers' concerns have been addressed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 5, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mikhail Gelfand
·
Dec 15, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please make corrections where you agree with the reviewers' comments, or explain your decision where you do not.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 10, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I would like to see more details in “generic relationships” section. 1. Pay more attention to the tree on fig. 4 rather then to the one on fig. 5. According my experience combined tree based on ITS, ETS and rpl16 is more appropriate for discussion on generic limits rather then AME which is based also on ALFP (fig. 5), because the latter marker is used mainly for complexes of closely related species and infraspecific relationships. 2. It would be appropriate to discuss the possibility of changing generic limits according the tree on fig. 4. — to move some species from one genus to another and to make corresponding nomenclatural combinations. If this is premature, why? 3. It is recommended to discuss specially the situation with the largest genus Espeletia which is paraphyletic. E.g., does Espeletia congestiflora (nested on fig. 4 within the main part of Espeteliopsis) have some unique morphological characters or not? Are there grounds to move it to Espeteliopsis? Similar situation with Espeletia weddellii, etc. Also it would be reasonable to pay more attention on incongruence between trees based of different markers, e.g. specially discuss most important examples.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Your paper is very interesting and definitely merits publication. However, you data could be used not only for conclusions about 2 centers of diversity and that “the radiation of frailejones is an ongoing and highly dynamic process”. You can make suggestions (or at least speculations) on generic limits and status of some species (see comments in “Validity of the findings”). Some minor comments see also in attached file. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Geography shapes the phylogeny of frailejones (Espeletiinae Cuatrec., Asteraceae): a remarkable example of recent rapid radiation in sky islands (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2968v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Nadezda Konstantinova ·
Dec 14, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The research fit well within Scope of journal. Methods of DNA extraction and phylogenetic reconstruction are carefully described, there are enough information for replication of some author's modifications. The results are based on study both numerous specimens collected by authors and specimens preserved in different Herbaria. Constructed trees are discussed in detailes. There are no special conclusion section but last section "Evolution and geography" can serve as conclusion. The paper represents an example of thorough research. Introduction is large and includes both brief descriptions of paramo ecosystem and taxonomy of frailejones. The research is based on study of numerous specimens both collected by authors and herbarium sheets from numerous herbaria. Methods are described in detailes. Apart of standart technics authors use some modifications that are well described. Explanation of rapid radiation of frailejones is appropriate. All statements are well supported. Some abiquity in constructed trees are discussed. English is clear and as far as I can judge professional. The paper is easy to read for not native speakers. It was pleasure for me to read this paper in spite of my own interests are far away from paramo and frailejones. Cite this review as
Konstantinova N ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Geography shapes the phylogeny of frailejones (Espeletiinae Cuatrec., Asteraceae): a remarkable example of recent rapid radiation in sky islands (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2968v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 29, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
