Review History for Cropping system diversification for food production in Mindanao rubber plantations: a rice cultivar mixture and rice intercropped with mungbean [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Cropping system diversification for food production in Mindanao rubber plantations: a rice cultivar mixture and rice intercropped with mungbean To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 6th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 13th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on January 5th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 10th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Stephen Wratten
·
Jan 10, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors You have worked hard on addressing referee comments Many of these were of the type 'could do' or 'might be a good idea to' etc and in many cases you have done what's possible given the limitations of the work and available data.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 5, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Stephen Wratten
·
Dec 13, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The changes required are between major and minor - please address the referee comments, revise the existing ms, and return to me Best wishes
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 1, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article evaluated the addition of bean and rice crops alone, and both combined as a mixed crop, established in the inter-row areas in rubber plantations in the Philippines. Although intercropping mixtures have been evaluated elsewhere before for different crops worldwide, the angle of mixing non-food crops with an alternative source of food for human consumption highlights that plant diversification in agroecosystems can promote food security without compromising the production of other valuable plant materials. In this sense, I really liked the idea behind this paper. However, two major concerns arose during the reviewing process: 1) Vague and sometimes not clear enough statistical analyses/results, and 2) Discussion at some extent was overly general and was not entirely based on the results presented. These points will be discussed below:
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
1)Vague statistics I was a little confused about the statistical tests used in this article. Why using analysis of variance, (ANOVA presumably AOV in the text?), linear mixed models (LMM) and generalised mixed models (GLMM) instead of just using the GLMM? One of the advantages of the latter is that it can model different distributions, accounting for normality and heteroscedasticity without transforming the raw data (Bolker et al., 2009; Bolker, 2015). I used the term “Vague” here to characterise the use of “approximately normally distributed” in the main text (Lines 128, 129, 144), which is not clear. Unfortunately, the raw data set was not supplied (at least I was not able to use the data provided to perform those statistical analyses by my own). Therefore, further evaluation of the results presented here was not carried out. Please check how to report statistical values after modelling, such as Fx,y=?; df=?; p=?. The interpretation of statistical analyses is sometimes not right. See line 292 and 302. 2)The authors did an interesting effort in communicating how this intercropping technique was adopted by Philippine farmers. However, this was never measured or reported in the current article. I suggest to the authors to look at (Gurr et al., 2016) for a similar pesticide/economic/social analysis. Also, (Khan et al., 2000) provided a very interesting approach in evaluating the adoption of novel agricultural techniques by farmers. Probably include other references in relation to this? From lines 328 to 336 is not quite clear how these are connected with your work. Discussion needs to be written more concisely to better contextualise the results from this work.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I strongly recommend the authors to improve the English writing, as in some parts of the manuscript sentences are not connected between each other or unclear. Discussion should be more focused on the actual measured results, rather than to account for something that was not evaluated in the paper (adoption of the techniques by farmers), despite that this adoption might be already applied on several farms around the studied landscape. If data on farmers’ surveys about the adoption of this technique is available, it should be included in the manuscript. If that is the case, I suggest revising the works of (Altieri, Funes-Monzote & Petersen, 2011), (Latour, 19999) and (Warner, 2007). If the core idea of implementing a more diversified crop in non-food agricultural areas to promote food security in Philippine rubber plantations is currently applied in those areas, the article should properly measure and discuss them. I encourage the authors to revise the manuscript, as the experimental split-plot design presented here can give an interesting statistical power to test the aims of this work. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Cropping system diversification for food production in Mindanao rubber plantations: a rice cultivar mixture and rice intercropped with mungbean (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2975v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Mark Boudreau ·
Dec 4, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is very well written and generally clear. The citations are appropriate and the introduction provides a clear context for this important area of research. Important clarification and streamlining: 1.Provide diagram of design and clarify LER calculation as discussed below under “Experimental Design.” 2.There are a lot of tables, and they are well-constructed with valuable information. However, given the low disease/pest pressure and lack of treatment effects on these responses, in would be efficient to move Tables 6-9 to the Supplemental Tables & Figures category. The textual description of the results should remain. Minor points: Abstract: Last sentence should be “adopted” rather than “adapted?” L56: Define “land expectation value.” L59: A couple quantitative examples of improvements would be good. L80: Do rubber growers stop intercropping once the trees begin to be tapped? Is that an option or not something the authors envision? L86-89: Put what was evaluated first and response variables second. L148-162: This may be more appropriate in the Introduction. L177-192: More details here on intensity of sampling for pests and diseases and rating systems used. References to established systems as given for rice leaf blast is sufficient, but only indicating “evaluated in 2006 by damage category” is not. Indicate any treatments for weeds—I infer that there were none.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question is within the scope of the journal, well-defined, highly relevant, and meaningful. The approach is straightforward though the nested design and multiple sites makes description challenging. Assuming I’m interpreting the text properly, the design is adequate and robust under the difficult circumstances of on-farm trials and events such as flooding. Important points: 1.Because of the split-plot nature of the design and the change of sites, the explanation in the methods would benefit from a diagrammatic representation of the relationship between sites, farms, tree age, whole plots, and subplots. Perhaps a map of Mindanao with farm locations should be part of this, but the main thrust should be to clarify the hierarchy of experimental elements, and the replication. 2.Indicate the size of the plots. How long were the 10-row units, was one such unit considered one subplot or did the subplot traverse multiple tree rows? What constituted the buffer between the plots—the distance between gaps and size of the border plant areas? This is particularly relevant to disease and insect movement. 3.The calculation of LER is presented but it is unclear how it could be done without a monocrop of mung bean as one of the treatments. It would seem that the appropriate LER calculation for the rice mixture would be with the Dinorado and UPL Ri-5 plots as the monocrops and the RM as the “intercrop;” is this the case? The various actual interspecific mixtures should calculate LER using the RM as one monocrop and a mung bean monocrop as the other, but no such treatment is described.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data is robust and statistically sound, and the conclusions well stated. The use of yield rank regressions is an excellent approach to evaluating the results. The appearance of outliers in Figs. 2 and 3 however should be explained in the text; i.e., how they were determined and the number of them relative to the number of samples for each treatment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This well-designed and -reported research addresses an important issue for growers in Mindanao, that of balancing cash crops with food security, as well as taking advantage of the potential benefits of intercropping and reinforcing resilience of cropping systems. It can be extended to other systems and locations and adds to the growing empirical base for intercropping efficacy. Cite this review as
Boudreau M ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Cropping system diversification for food production in Mindanao rubber plantations: a rice cultivar mixture and rice intercropped with mungbean (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.2975v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 6, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
