Review History for Making inference from wildlife collision data: inferring predator absence from prey strikes [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Making inference from wildlife collision data: inferring predator absence from prey strikes To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 1st, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 15th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on January 13th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 23rd, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michael Somers
·
Jan 23, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All looks good. At production stage please put in species names on first mention in the abstract too?
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 13, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Somers
·
Dec 15, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers have only minor revisions. Please correct accordingly and I look forward to the re-submission.
label_author_1
Dan Parker ·
Nov 15, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
All basic reporting in the article meets the standards of PeerJ.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is clearly outlined, of a high standard and appropriate for the analyses presented in the paper.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Although the data are inherently sparse (as acknowledged by the authors), the authors have done an excellent job at extracting (and aggregating where appropriate) the data and then analyzing these data in a novel way. The conclusions are appropriate and the broader application of the approach is clearly outlined.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I believe that this article, especially the assessment of carnivore population dynamics elsewhere in the world, is extremely important for the assessment of roadkill data globally. There is only one small error: Line 126: lagomorph is incorrectly spelled. Cite this review as
Parker D ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Making inference from wildlife collision data: inferring predator absence from prey strikes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3014v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Graham Smith ·
Dec 13, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is an interesting and relatively novel approach to the problem of species extinction/introduction and is well written throughout.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This is a novel approach to looking for relationships between species occurrence and I have some minor concerns, although these do not invalidate the paper. 1. I understand that the equation used relates prey and predator numbers at a specific location. The use of 'state' may make this location rather large. Can the authors comment on this? Do foxes and lagomorphs exist in the whole of the state (in respect to the airports used) where strikes occur? Also, they have not investigated alternative models. 2. Foxes and rabbits are crepuscular. Is there any bias in time of day that these airports are used? I would expect larger airports to have relatively greater activity at dusk. 3. I found the use of airport strikes very interesting since these have to be reported. When I first glanced at the paper I was expecting to read about roadkill, which is poorly and sporadically reported. Can the authors at least comment on a lack of roadkilled foxes in Tasmania to support their findings? Alternatively one could drive roads as a transect and count roadkill, but this does not seem to be considered.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
1. The Holling type III response seems to be specific to the fox/lagomorph relationship. Perhaps raise in the discussion whether alternative models would be considered in different circumstances (e.g. specifically for the eagle - fox relationship).
Cite this review as
Smith G ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Making inference from wildlife collision data: inferring predator absence from prey strikes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3014v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 1, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
