Review History for Modeling using clinical examination indicators predicts interstitial lung disease among patients with rheumatoid arthritis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Modeling using clinical examination indicators predicts interstitial lung disease among patients with rheumatoid arthritis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 20th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 23rd, 2016. The first revision was submitted on January 13th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 24th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Sarah Howie
·
Jan 24, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been much improved by the addition of a new test set of data. The statistics appear to be correctly applied.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 13, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Sarah Howie
·
Nov 23, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both referees have picked up that the validation set of samples is not appropriate. The validation should be done on an unrelated set of samples.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 7, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The layout of the paper is acceptable
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1. No information is given on how the CEIs were selected. 2. The training set contianed a mixture of RA patients with and without pulmonary fibrosis. The validation set of 87 patients all appear to have been selected bacause they had fibrosis. Usually validation sets should reflect the make up of the training set ie they should be a mixture and the ability of the test to accurately predict the presence or absence of fibrosis can then be measured.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This is difficult to assess as the validation set is biased to the presence of fibrosis ie the ability of the test to predict the abscence of fibrosis has not been looked at.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Modeling using clinical examination indicators predicts interstitial lung disease among patients with rheumatoid arthritis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3021v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Colin Bingle ·
Nov 23, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This paper is reasonably well written. It use complex statistical and machine learning language that is somewhat difficult to follow with limited explanation of the statistical test used. For example specific values are given for the Youden index with no explanation of what they mean. Some of the biological discussion is also very weak, for example lines 226-228.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The study is a simple prospective clinical study. There is a limited explanation of the ethical approvals used for the study. It is not clear if the training set and the validation set are appropriate. It appears that the "validation" was performed by using a set of patients with known RA associated ILD. Perhaps it would have been better had the authors used a second unrelated cohort of patients with the same ILD distribution as the training set? This is a major flaw as it will lead to a significant bias.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I am not sure that the data is very robust for the reasons outlined above. The biology of the findings are also not very clear.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors set out to build a novel statistical model that they propose will allow the identification of RA patients at risk of developing ILD and pulmonary fibrosis. ILD is a recognized complication of RA and the rational for the study is reasonably well made. The model uses a large number of routinely collected clinical examination indicators and the analysis suggests that a number of these might have some utility in defining RA patients at risk of developing ILD. To validate the model they use a test cohort of patients with the diagnosis of RA associated ILD. Unsurprisingly, this provides support for the model. I am not sure that this is an appropriate validation set. Perhaps it would have been better had the authors used a second unrelated cohort of patients with the same ILD distribution as the training set? They appear to recognise this as a weakness in the discussion. I felt that the paper was written in a way that made it rather difficult to understand the underlying biology. Much is made about the data but there is very little discussion about why specific CEIs might be associated with ILD development. It is unclear if the authors are suggesting the use of the 4 CEIs alone will have utility in identifying patients at risk of developing RA associated ILD. As such I am unclear as to the value of the paper as written. Cite this review as
Bingle C ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Modeling using clinical examination indicators predicts interstitial lung disease among patients with rheumatoid arthritis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3021v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 20, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
