Review History for A happier and less sinister past, a more hedonistic and less fatalistic present and a more structured future: time perspective and well-being [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A happier and less sinister past, a more hedonistic and less fatalistic present and a more structured future: time perspective and well-being To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 17th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 5th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on February 12th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 12th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
C. Robert Cloninger
·
Feb 12, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
This is a valuable contribution to the literature and shows the relevance of all aspects of a person's life (past, present, and future) for well-being.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 12, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
C. Robert Cloninger
·
Feb 5, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The article is interesting but needs some minor revisions to answer the reviewers questions.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 3, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is interesting because the aim is to study relationship between time perspective and psychological well-being. The topic is actual and new. I recommend to authors response to several questions.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Adequate. (see comments to author)
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Good. (see comments to author)
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Lines 22-32, authors indicate Time Perspective (TP) correlates with several behaviours , mood…. following a hypothetical biological mechanism to explain how past and future are related. I think that authors could include some of the more recent correlates of TP, from the first studies related to addiction (Fieulane, France), procrastination and morningness-eveningness (Diaz-Morales, Spain), environmental behavior (Milfont, ), etc. Line 53. Please, indicate better the difference between Diener and Riff approach. Line 64. Authors could related the “approach-related positive affect” with other personality models (e.g. Gray). Line 102. Please explain why the order of application wasn’t counterbalanced. Early studies about mood and order of application could be refereed here. Include this question as limitation of study. Line 119. Has been published other ZTPI versions with good psychometric properties? For example, in France, Spain, Italy, etc. Perhaps these another versions could be indicated here or in Introduction. Please, see page web of TP European research group. Line 155. Typographical errors. Lines 176-190. Authors test the fix of several models but the question is what is the model with better fix ? Please, calculate some statistic to contrast fix of models. Lines 192-195. Both sentences are not supported by data analysis. Please, re-write or make the comparative analysis contrasting the structural models. Lines 224. Explain why tow correlation coefficients are statistically compared. Lines 236-239. Authors call to psychological variables to explain results. This might be related to Introduction, where these variables, process or models could be detailed. Line 257. Please, include here some reference to the research realized by F. Sirois in relation to positive and negative affect and time perspective and procrastination. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "A happier and less sinister past, a more hedonistic and less fatalistic present and a more structured future: time perspective and well-being (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.303v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Bibinaz Ghiabi ·
Jan 14, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No comments. Cite this review as
Ghiabi B ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "A happier and less sinister past, a more hedonistic and less fatalistic present and a more structured future: time perspective and well-being (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.303v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Dec 28, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article meets the basic standard but there are some small errors in the text see line 34, 367, 400, 402-4, 415 and 429. Except for that I have no other comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The question I ask is how the authors got in contact with respondents and how many of the contacts that were taken led to a participation in the study. So, what is the actual response rate? But appart from that, no comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No Comments
Comments for the author
The reading of Table 2 would be improved if the R2 values were added after one and each group of results (i. e. past life satisfaction, present life satisfaction and future life satisfaction in the Satisfaction Model; and PA, NA and PWB in the PANA and PWB model) Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #3 of "A happier and less sinister past, a more hedonistic and less fatalistic present and a more structured future: time perspective and well-being (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.303v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 17, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
