Review History for Automated identification of insect vectors of Chagas disease in Brazil and Mexico: the Virtual Vector Lab [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Automated identification of insect vectors of Chagas disease in Brazil and Mexico: the Virtual Vector Lab To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 26th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 11th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on December 21st, 2016 and was reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 28th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Brenda Oppert
·
Jan 28, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your patience with the review of your manuscript. Evidently, the original editor is not available, and I have stepped in to move the manuscript toward publication. Both reviewers feel that you have adequately addressed their concerns and now recommend acceptance. I would just note that one reviewer had the following minor comments, that you may want to address in the final copy of your publication (I will alert PeerJ in case you would like to make these corrections and submit a final version). Line 50: While 150+ species is technically correct, including the 2 fossil species, perhaps "149 extant species" or nearly "150 extant species" would be more accurate in this instance Line 120: Although I can not tell for certain, the pin seems to be in the thorax in between the legs and not the abdomen, which would be an unusual and unstable place for mounting a specimen. Line 225 and rest of paragraph: "tergits" should be "tergites"
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 4, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors have deposited the data I had previously requested and I have no further comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors have addressed the small question I had previously requested and I have no further comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors have corrected the inconsistency in their data and explained how it occurred and I have no further comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In looking at the new changes, I have a three minor things I overlooked at first or were newly added. Line 50: While 150+ species is technically correct, including the 2 fossil species, perhaps "149 extant species" or nearly "150 extant species" would be more accurate in this instance Line 120: Although I can not tell for certain, the pin seems to be in the thorax in between the legs and not the abdomen, which would be an unusual and unstable place for mounting a specimen. Line 225 and rest of paragraph: "tergits" should be "tergites" Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Automated identification of insect vectors of Chagas disease in Brazil and Mexico: the Virtual Vector Lab (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3040v0.2/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 3 ·
Jan 3, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is not a full review, just a quick response as requested by the handling editor.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The design is very much based on trial and error. While the process and reasoning for the trials are well described, others attempting to use or expand on the methods will probably face their own, different, headaches and have to go through their own process. To that end the specific methods are unlikely to be replicable en masse, though some may prove useful to others.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
As a lot of the paper involves trial and error the results--the reported success rates are contingent on the numerous trials and errors. For instance the accuracy of one datum included depends 'on the accuracy with which the legs have been clipped off in earlier steps', the success rates presented in turn depend (or might, the neural net is a bit of a black box) on that datum, which means in term these success rates depend on how you clip of the legs. And how you rescale the background. And the micro-decisions of Garp, and dozens of other things. This is not to say the results are not 'valid', but it is to say they are only valid in the context in which the work was undertaken.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Automated identification of insect vectors of Chagas disease in Brazil and Mexico: the Virtual Vector Lab (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3040v0.2/reviews/3 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 21, 2016
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dina Fonseca
·
Nov 11, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
This is an interesting and potentially important development of image recognition software for automatic identification of disease vectors. Automated (and accurate) ID would provide important support to vector control professionals. However, while both reviewers recognized the potential of this work, both raised several shortcomings that need to be addressed before publication such as details regarding preparation and positioning of the specimen as well as access to more details of the code - after all, the idea is to provide this information as a starting point for others to develop. And there is a lot of room for improvement: (1) less "preparation" (i.e. ability to forego perfect positioning), (2) IDing of smaller specimens, (3) less reliance on geography. Indeed, if a human "handler" is required for the ID to be accurate then the value of the application is reduced significantly (it is relatively simple to train a technician to process and identify common specimens at a glance). However, the ability of a computer to compare the unknown specimens to hundreds or thousands of specimen information stored in a database would allow identification of "hard-to-ID" specimens (such as rare species or, more importantly, exotics). This would be an important achievement.
label_author_3
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 7, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article is both well written and comprehensive in presenting related information in the introduction and the discussion. The figures are designed and described very well. Raw data is supplied in the form of “confusion matrices”, a table of success rates of correct identification of photographs of various species and any misidentifications. No raw data is supplied for some more minor components of the paper such as the data presented in Figure 5 and the actual specimen photographs themselves and I think that these data may be beneficial to provide as well. Additionally, the code necessary for automating image processing, assessing various landmarks for identification and classifying an image to species, the main contribution of this paper, has not yet been provided.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The newly implemented automated procedure is well described with detailed and clear descriptions of how the estimator and classifier function. The testing of the classifier via the leave-one-out cross validation could be expounded upon slightly. In the future, do you imagine that the classifier will use every applicable photograph of every relevant species for classification potentially even incorporating new photographs of initially unknown specimens or a narrower set of training images?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data is robust and conclusions are appropriate. The number of entries in the supplementary material (396 for Mexico; 1502 for Brazil) are slightly different from the number of photographs reported in the paper (412 for Mexico; 1504 for Brazil).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_3
Gurgel-Gonçalves et al. demonstrate the first attempt at an automated process for identification of Triatominae species primarily through comparison of a set of estimated morphological landmark ratios estimated from a photograph to those of known species. The paper includes a component modeling species distributions for 17 species of Triatominae and is markedly more successful when photographs are classified only against a potential pool of species known to occur in a certain area. Though already mostly successful for the initial set of photographs, they provide details and ideas for future implementations to further increase the success of identification, e.g., by further inclusion of additional coloration characters for challenging species pairs. They adequately address caveats about their classifier and have thought about potential solutions for several problems. The only suggestions I have relate to inclusion of some additional data including the code required to implement the classifier itself, which would be crucial for another party to repeat the same experiment. Line 43: Add comma after “Alternatives” Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Automated identification of insect vectors of Chagas disease in Brazil and Mexico: the Virtual Vector Lab (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3040v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_4
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 11, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_4
The submission is suitable to PeerJ policies. Minor comments: The manuscrite include a good introduction and is appropriately referenced. One more reference should be referenced. There is a web and mobile tool to help taxonomists and health care technicians to overcome the difficulties to identify Triatomine. The software makes use of dichotomous key method and help the identification of triatomines species from Brazil. Freely available at http://triatokey.cpqrr.fiocruz.br/ Please, the text of lines 68 and 69 should be adapted.
Experimental design
label_ed_4
Some doubts: 1)Line 117: The authors say that the pins were removed for capture images. But the figure 1 shows an insect on the pin. Is it necessary to use the pin or no? Both are possible? What is consequences to use specimen pin? Sometimes we cannot remove the pin of specimen voucher. 2)The authors say: “When possible, the first pair of legs is removed to simplify image processing” (line 120-122). But if it does not possible, what kind of injury can this bring to the analysis? Has any test been performed to determine the identification success rates under these conditions? 3) The magnification lens attached is always 7X? Even for large species like Panstrongylus megistus, Triatoma vitticeps, P. geniculatus, etc? 4)What can be doing to avoid problems in total length if the wings extend beyond the final tergits? 5)To avoid false positives, the technique depends on an accuracy of the landmarks position. How to ensure, for example, the same position vertically for all insects on photo apparatus? 6)How long does it take to process a insect and give the results? What is the value of apparatus? Finally, the automated system would be use by health care technicians to support routine entomological surveillance? Others comments: -The name of triatomine species must be written in accordance with the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature. Please, reviewer all the text and tables (e.g., lines 77, 281, 294). -Table one available in Supplementary Materials is wrong. I did not see the data that shows a total of 1903 images of 67 Brazilian species and 428 images of Mexican triatomine species. -The data which shows how each image was classified is wrong too. There is a lot of mistakes and the sample size presented in Tables 1 and 2 don’t match witch the Confusion matrices (Supplementary Materials). e.g., See below (table 1) Species sample size… …success rate E. mucronatus 10 100 E. mucronatus 12 (according Confusion matrices) ?? Only values about P. geniculatus, R. montenegrensis, T. baratai, T. pintodiasi and T. mexicana vectors is correct. Please recalculate success rate according to correct sample size. -Lines 392 - 400: to review (e.g., identification success rates was not 100.0% for P. diasi; T. williami was confused in 3 cases only with T. guazu; The sample size from P. rufotuberculatus is <9. -After reassess of the data, the values should be changed in the text and tables.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_4
The authors mentions and recognize some caveats, challenges, problems and constraint for the use of virtual vector Lab. Recognizing failures is a merit. But for me it was not clear the main conclusion of the work in the opinion of the authors.
Comments for the author
This manuscript takes an interesting challenge, Namely a fully automated system that is able to identify triatomine bugs from Mexico and Brazil with a good accuracy. The question is very interesting, and potentially is very important. However, there is shortfalls need to be remedied before this manuscript can be considered as publishable. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Automated identification of insect vectors of Chagas disease in Brazil and Mexico: the Virtual Vector Lab (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3040v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 26, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
