Review History for Degree of adaptive response in urban tolerant birds shows influence of habitat-of-origin [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Degree of adaptive response in urban tolerant birds shows influence of habitat-of-origin To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 19th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 15th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on January 28th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 18th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Gavin Stewart
·
Feb 18, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for constructively engaging with the peer review process and amending your manuscript in line with the suggestions of the reviewers and my editorial comments. The rebuttal of the remaining points is appropriate and i'm happy to accept your article for publication
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 28, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Gavin Stewart
·
Jan 15, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Lawrie, i am inviting you to resubmit a major revision of your paper which will be subject to additional peer review by new reviewers. I believe the work you have undertaken to merit publication but share the concerns of the reviewer with respect to the clarity of the manuscripts. The revision you have provided by email is a significant improvement but more work is still required to address the concerns of the reviewer and myself. Could i ask you to thoroughly cross check methods, figures, results and supplementary material to ensure that code, figures and results are presented sequentially as laid out in the methods section. The code included in your new supplementary material is a very useful addition, but you only need to display the heads of your data frames, and additional code for your hierarchical models and the cluster analysis would be useful. I would also suggest that you shorten the introduction and relate it more explicitly to your hypotheses. The first hypothesis could also be expressed in language that general biologists would be more able to interpret. Add an explanation of the assessment of model convergence (Gelman Rubin diagnostics) or discuss the lack of such assessment. The figures need keys and should be cited in numerical order in the text. The selection procedure for variables in the ordination needs to be more explicit. Summarise the results of ordination with all variables (with reference to the figures in your new supplementary material) and justify the selection of variables. Acknowledge uncertainty in response (large variance) to greenspace for both groups The discussion is great, but maybe tone down the language with respect to the conclusion. Fallacy is a bit strong in my view... A conceptual figure could also help explain how you view urban tolerant species and why it matters. I appreciate that we are asking for a lot of work (and that further reviewers may make further suggestions) and am aware that as an author this can be frustrating. However, I would strongly encourage you to persist with this manuscript in order to realise its potential merit. I would like to see it published in peerJ.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 24, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Although the study is interesting, I will not recommend this manuscript to be published. This script still needs a lot of work. I have not finished correcting because I think that work is a draft. It has basic errors in label and caption of figures, legends, scientific names, acronyms, interpretation of results, species' table, etc. Additionally, the work seems to be part of another publication, not an independent publication.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No Comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Degree of adaptive response in urban tolerant birds shows influence of habitat-of-origin (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.306v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 19, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
