Review History for Can video playback provide social information for foraging blue tits? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Can video playback provide social information for foraging blue tits? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 13th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 24th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on January 31st, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 3rd, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Donald Kramer
·
Feb 3, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript is now suitable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 31, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Donald Kramer
·
Jan 24, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Based on the Peerage of Science reviews and my reading of the manuscript, I find this interesting manuscript very close to publishable. It is very well written overall. My reading detected only a small number of errors in the use of punctuation and capitalization and a few lapses in the references and figure captions. The main ones are indicated below, and the rest are noted using highlighting and inserted comments on the pdf. Detailed comments L63 and elsewhere. I think that 'parid' as an adjective should be lower case (check all mentions throughout manuscript). References need to be checked for consistency in italics for species names, capitalization of journal titles, lower case for article titles. Fig. 2 The caption refers to number of acts but the ordinates on the panels are rates. Fig. 3. The caption refers to mean +/- SE, but panel c appears to use box plots, based on medians and quantiles (that should be described). Fig. 4. Again, describe what the box plots represent. In keeping with SI standard abbreviations, the caption and axis label should abbreviate seconds as s, as elsewhere in the manuscript.
Download annotated manuscript Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 13, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
