Review History for Sorghum and wheat differentially affect caecal microbiota and associated performance characteristics of meat chickens [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Sorghum and wheat differentially affect caecal microbiota and associated performance characteristics of meat chickens To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 4th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 5th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on January 14th, 2017 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 7th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Hauke Smidt
·
Feb 7, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for carefully revising the manuscript, which has much improved.
label_author_1
Wilfried Vahjen ·
Jan 25, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
no comment Cite this review as
Vahjen W ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Sorghum and wheat differentially affect caecal microbiota and associated performance characteristics of meat chickens (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3071v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 14, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Hauke Smidt
·
Dec 5, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As you will see, both expert reviewers agreed that your manuscript makes a valuable contribution to the field. Nevertheless, especially reviewer 1 provided several relevant suggestions for further improvement of especially the discussion, and indicated some issues with data analysis. Furthermore, in your introduction you mention that feed has a major impact on the microbiota composition, but from your study that is not obvious. This fact could be addressed more explicitly in the discussion.
label_author_2
Wilfried Vahjen ·
Nov 22, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In general, the manuscript is well written and adheres to Peer J policies.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The DNA extraction should be explained in a bit more detail, i.e. the reader should be aware that "raw extracts" were obtained by bead beating and ammonium acetate precipitation with subsequenct purification on Qiagen stool columns.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
A comment on the correlation analysis: the Pearsons correlation analysis is more suitable normally distributed data. This may be the case for performance, but probably not for microbiota data. I suggest to use the Spearman correlation analysis instead, which is more robust against non-normally distributed data. Discussion L156ff This paragraph discusses performance, but not microbiota, thus the title should be changed. The paragraph could also be shortened to focus on the main point of interest (microbiota impact on performance) L310f The discussion of lactobacilli (together with clostridia) as dominating bacteria in the hind gut needs a little revision. The cited reference (Dumonceaux et al. 2006) states that lactobacillis dominated the small-, but not the large intestine (68% Clostridiales vs. 25% Lactobacilliales). This is consistent with other studies that show the Clostridiales are dominating the hind gut of poultry. L329ff I am missing discussion of a possible the mode of action for the beneficial L. crispatus. It is of interest that this species may be an indicator, but why would it interfere with AME? Unfortunately, bacterial metabolite data is missing, so a possible increased uptake of SCFA as energy source can not be ascertained. Nevertheless, do the authors think that the species itself is responsible or is it just an indicator, while the truly responsible bacteria may be of different origin than lactobacilli? L350 please add animal species that were studied in the references L393 If there is no indication on the physiology of the bacteria found to impact performance, they may just be indicators with no actual effect. Thus, the conclusion that "probiotic bacteria" were found is not justified.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In general, I have one major comment on the discussion of the data: The bacteria that were found to correlate with performance may only be indicators without any effect on performance. There should be some arguments related to their interaction with the host. Digestion of energy delivering nutrients occurs exclusively in the small intestine and thus, the analysis of the hind gut may not reflect the situation in the small intestine. How could bacteria influence metabolizable energy? Directly via energy delivering metabolites, indirectly via less energy costs for maintenance/ detoxification? Discussion of these points may enhance the presented data. Cite this review as
Vahjen W ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Sorghum and wheat differentially affect caecal microbiota and associated performance characteristics of meat chickens (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3071v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 2, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article is well written with sufficient introduction and background
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research question is to compare the effects of a wheat diet and a sorghum diet on the performance and caecal microbiota composition of broiler chickens. It is not clear why the timeframe (day 15 to day 25) was taken. Fig 4 C1 (Enterococcus) and D2 (Enterococcaceae) look exactely the same, is this correct?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
no comments
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Sorghum and wheat differentially affect caecal microbiota and associated performance characteristics of meat chickens (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3071v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 4, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
