Review History for Direct imaging of APP proteolysis in living cells [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Direct imaging of APP proteolysis in living cells To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 6th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 17th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on February 9th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 13th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tokuko Haraguchi
·
Feb 13, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Authors clarified all the concerns raised by the reviewers. Therefore, this paper is now accepted for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 9, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tokuko Haraguchi
·
Nov 17, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Two experts reviewed your paper and found it is valuable. But they raised some problems on the current version of the manuscript. I hope you find their comments valuable and revise according to their comments.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 4, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The language used by the authors to describe the methodology is unambiguous and pertinent, the subject is well contextualized and the figures reflect what is described in the text. Further, Parenti et al. use several experimental approaches to validate their method.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
In this study, Parenti et al propose and validate a new in vivo method for measuring amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing as an alternative to commercially available kits that measure secretase activity in vitro. This new method is a rapid bioassay that would generate direct insight into the proteolytic cleavage of APP directly in cells. Further, Parenti et al. use several experimental approaches to validate their method. This new method has the potential to be an important tool in APP research because it allows us to spatially visualize APP processing in a live-cell system.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Overall, the experimental design is appropriate and the data are reliable. The findings are of considerable interest. However, there are several points that require attention. - In the introduction, the authors mention that the Aß oligomers contribute “mostly” to the development of the disease. This is a controversial issue on the field, oligomers have an undeniable role in the toxicity process but there are many other factors that contribute to the development of the disease in earlier stages. - The authors use the word “membrane” synonymously with “plasma membrane.” There are many other membranes in the cell. I suggest that the authors kindly indicate which one they are referring to in order to avoid confusion. - In Figure 2a, the authors show that anti-mCherry immunocytochemistry (blue) doesn’t match with mCherry (red). The authors say that the method used is “surface labeling” but in the methods they say that the cells were permeabilized. If the cells were permeabilized, how is the protein detection discrepancy possible? - To verify the silencing the authors show, in supplemental figure 2b, an image of Bace1-mBFP. I strongly recommend to perform a western blot anti Bace1 in order to confirm this result. - The authors observed small red fluorescent punctae that don’t correspond to a comparable level of green fluorescence intensity. They suggest that these “red punctae” localize in lysosomes but they didn’t add any subcellular marker to confirm this hypothesis. Have they considered the possibility of localization in endosomes? Mature active forms of Bace1 are largely localized in late Golgi and early endosome compartments (Vassar et al., J Neurosci, 2009). I strongly recommend adding subcellular markers for both endosomes and lysosomes to confirm the subcellular localization of mChAPPmGFP and its cleavage products. - The authors state that mostly APP localizes in the Golgi (an appropriate reference for this is needed). A Golgi marker in the immunocytochemistry is necessary to confirm this claim. - In the western blot shown in Figure 4d, I would expect to see the C-terminal fragments of mChAPPmGFP. These fragments should be present in the pellet samples when Bace1 is not silenced when blotting for antiGFP and antiAß. Why are these fragments not shown? The analysis of the C terminal fragments in the gel could be useful to corroborate the appropriate processing of mChAPPmGFP. - To see if mChAPPmGFP can also be processed by <U+03B3>-secretase, I would propose to add a <U+03B3>-secretase inhibitor (DAPT) to see if the fluorescent protein accumulations are Aß peptides or CTFs. - The authors use the silencing of Bace1 as a way to discrimate between a- and the ß-cleavage. Since they are overexpressing Bace1, they assume that mCherry-sAPPa levels would be negligible. However, since they detect mCherry-sAPPa when silencing Bace1, I would consider it appropriate to add control conditions that consist of treatment with an a-secretase inhibitor or silencing of a-secretase to completely abrogate mCherry-sAPPa production.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Direct imaging of APP proteolysis in living cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3086v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Minor comments. repeated "the" at end of abstract, "length" misspelled (line 115). Sentence structure was awkward throughout. Consider having more people edit this paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Consider using HEK cells for FACS analysis. Easily transfected, no trypsin required to detach. You are almost certainly losing some APP to trypsin proteolysis at the cell surface.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Note that Villegas et al. (Hum Mol Genet. 2014 Mar 15;23(6):1631-43) made a similar dual tagged APP construct as you did, and found that the N and C termini are trafficked differently. Please cite this paper and discuss, because I think it has implications on the effectiveness of your method. If N terminal fragments of APP are retained intracellularly (as C terminal fragments are), this method's power to detect APP cleavage would be limited.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I think your design and methods are generally correct. Given the amyloid hypothesis, a construct that would selectively detect the beta cleavage of APP would be the most compelling. As such, you demonstrate that your method can detect beta cleavage, however, it would also detect alpha cleavage as well, as you also demonstrate. If you could design a tag that would could be selectively detected when present in sAPPbeta and not sAPPalpha, that would be an excellent tool for AD. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Direct imaging of APP proteolysis in living cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3086v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 6, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
