Review History for Effects of various factors on Doppler flow ultrasonic radial and coccygeal artery systolic blood pressure measurements in privately-owned, conscious dogs [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effects of various factors on Doppler flow ultrasonic radial and coccygeal artery systolic blood pressure measurements in privately-owned, conscious dogs To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 12th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 16th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on February 17th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 17th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Philip Kass
·
Feb 17, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
In production, please check the following footnote: "Riestar Direct" - should this be spelled "Riester Direct"?
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 17, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Philip Kass
·
Jan 16, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
There is very serious concern about the study design that may preclude ultimate acceptance of this manuscript. These concerns include the absence of a "gold standard" measurement, which makes the value of either Doppler technique speculative. Other design issues that can lead to uncontrolled bias are explained in detail in the reviews. It will therefore be necessary to satisfactorily respond to all reviewer comments, and I will send your response back to at least one reviewer for re-review and a final recommendation concerning publication.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 13, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Manuscript is clear and well-written.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
See general comments section.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See general comments section.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Abstract Objective: Why did the investigators not include a “gold standard” measurement of blood pressure in their study? In other words, why not compare radial and coccygeal NIBP to direct ABP instead of each other? Methods: Each investigator measures both BCS and MCS and thus is not blinded to the pressure value of the first measurement when performing the second blood pressure measurement. Why wouldn’t this lead to bias that favors agreement between the two measurement techniques? Why wasn’t this study conducted using one of the two following techniques instead: 1.One investigator listens for the Doppler sound and a second investigator reads the manometer 2.One investigator measures the coccygeal artery pressure and the other investigator measures the radial artery pressure without communicating the values to each other. The investigators alternate who is assigned the BCS vs. the MCS measurement. Conclusions: The authors state “Initial measurement site can be based on patient and operator preference given lack of associations with patient variables…” It can be argued that we do not know whether either site is preferable because we have no gold standard comparison. Methods: The investigators are concerned about the effect of BCS on radial vs. coccygeal arterial pressure measurements and explain the importance of obtaining accurate pressures in hypertensive or hypotensive patients. However, the study population is comprised of healthy normotensive dogs. Is it possible that accuracy of site selection varies with blood pressure, and if so, could decisions to study only normal dogs affect their ability to evaluate whether one site is better than another in the clinical population of interest (hypertensive or hypotensive dogs)? Was the sphygmomanometer calibrated? If so, how and when? If not, how do you know that the pressure measurements were accurate? Why weren’t blood pressure measurements at the radial and coccygeal sites measured simultaneously? Blood pressure can potentially vary significantly in awake dogs from moment to moment. If the investigators were concerned that measurements could be different because of the blood pressure equipment used, the study could be designed to alternate each equipment set-up between the tail and arm and include this covariate in the analysis. Discussion: Questions and concerns similar to those raised in Abstract and Methods sections. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effects of various factors on Doppler flow ultrasonic radial and coccygeal artery systolic blood pressure measurements in privately-owned, conscious dogs (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3101v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Aleksandra Domanjko Petric ·
Jan 14, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Review of the “Effects of various factors on Doppler flow ultrasonic radial and coccygeal artery systolic blood pressure measurements in privately-owned, conscious dogs” (#14868) General comment: The manuscript is well structured and the study is nicely carried out. My congratulations to the authors. Specific comments: Line 283 – Bodey instead of Body Line 311 – No correlations to anxiety score should be attributed to low stress (shown in low heart rates) during the procedure Was there a difference between tail and radial circumference %? That might have explained the difference in on average higher coccygeal BP. It would be also more logical to expect higher BP in standing vs recumbent position, that means coccygeal would be higher, which was not the case. Dogs and cats usually experience taking BP in front legs more annoying than on the tail and that what could have made the radial BP higher Supplemental table BP database: I suggest adding measurement units to radial and tail circumference and BP. Cite this review as
Domanjko Petric A ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effects of various factors on Doppler flow ultrasonic radial and coccygeal artery systolic blood pressure measurements in privately-owned, conscious dogs (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3101v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 12, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
