Review History for Evaluation of procedures for typing of group B Streptococcus: a retrospective study [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evaluation of procedures for typing of group B Streptococcus : a retrospective study To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 23rd, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 5th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on February 17th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 19th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Valeria Souza
·
Feb 19, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All the suggestions were clearly done, the paper will be useful for medical purposes.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 17, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Valeria Souza
·
Feb 5, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers agree that this is a good manuscript that only needs minor revisions.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 17, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This reviewer found some minor errors, that should be revised for a better understanding of the text. Detected text that needs correction, are marked in yellow in the attached PDF of the revised manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Providing scientific evidence to compare methodologies commonly used in clinic, is continously needed to improve health services and to support epidemiological data. In this regard, we find this type of work necessary in scientific publications. However, since this study does not try to fill a gap in the knowledge of testing methods of genotyping GBS, but to evaluate available techniques that could enlight decision making, this reviewer considers important to state or declare how this study allows health-care scientific community a science based criteria for diagnosis or vaccine surveillance. More specifically, this reviewr thinks it would be better for readers to find a proposal, as result of your findings, of how and when to choose a GBS typing method, well stated at the end of your conclusions. For example: - When surveillance purpose is predicting... it is recommended to genotype ... to assure that, - When vaccine surveillance is containing a spread, we recommend the GBS serotyping since it will provide more accurate data that will help decision making... - When a patient in the hospital has shown a GBS infection... it is recommended to apply "X" typing method ... because... Maybe Figure 1, can be modified to add these recommendations to a better interpretation of conclusions, through the flowchart.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evaluation of procedures for typing of group B Streptococcus: a retrospective study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3105v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 31, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Name of Manuscript “Evaluation of procedures for typing of group B Streptococcus” Hans-Christian Slotved and Steen Hoffmann evaluated 616 clinical GBS isolates tested with two procedures: latex agglutination test and the Lancefield precipitation test for typing of Streptococcus agalactiae isolates, using retrospective data from the period 2010 to 2014. Both technics are used for Serotyping GBS isolates.These methods are easier , faster and can identified GBS and not require specialized equipment. Is important to write more introduction and background , for example, about the disease early onset and the diseases late onset ( 2002, Palacios-Saucedo et al) English is clear and professional The references are few, you can use more references. Professional article structure, tables, ok
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The submission is clear Methods ok
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Is important to write more introduction and background , for example, about the disease early onset and the diseases late onset ( 2002, Palacios-Saucedo et al) The references are few, you can use more references.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Evaluation of procedures for typing of group B Streptococcus: a retrospective study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3105v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 23, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
