Review History for Evaluating multi-locus phylogenies for species boundaries determination in the genus Diaporthe [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evaluating multi-locus phylogenies for species boundaries determination in the genus Diaporthe To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 23rd, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 2nd, 2017. The first revision was submitted on February 17th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 24th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Blanca Landa
·
Feb 24, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for taking into account all comments raised by both reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 17, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Blanca Landa
·
Feb 2, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I recommend to you to submit the alignments and the trees to a database repository such as treebase. This will allow other authors working in same genus to use them as inputs for your sequences in an easier way.
label_author_1
David Gramaje ·
Jan 21, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The information provided in this study is very relevant and help substantially to deciphering the Diaporthe’s black box through multi-loci phylogenies. The work was very well conducted and the manuscript is very well written. The manuscript is overall presented in an intelligible fashion. The authors demonstrated sufficient background in the topic. The structure of the article is adequate and the number of tables and figures are appropriate for the amount of data generated from this study. The literature provided by the authors covered all the taxonomical aspects of the genus Diaporthe, with many recent papers published in the subject. The Fungal Barcoding Consortium (Schoch et al. 2012 PNAS 109: 6241–6246) ratified the ITS as the universal DNA barcode for the fungal kingdom using the same gene section proposed by White et al. (1990, book PCR protocols) more than 20 years earlier. Despite the strength and impact of rDNA ITS as the sanctioned universal fungal DNA barcode, its resolution of higher taxonomic level relationships is inferior to many protein-coding genes such as the TUB2. The most realistic solution would be to combine ITS with secondary or tertiary, ‘group-specific’ DNA barcode(s). This means combine the universal primer fidelity and high taxon coverage possible with ITS, with equally robust primers for secondary barcodes specific to the group or taxon of interest, enhancing precision of species identification. Surprisingly, according to the authors the ITS locus is the least informative among the five loci tested in order to distinguish Diaporthe species. This finding is crucial for use in further taxonomic studies of this genus and will help scientists in the correct diagnosis of Diaporthe species. This will have important implications in the epidemiology and management of diseases caused by species of this genus. Below some minor wording suggestions/corrections in the manuscript: Line 42: consider changing ‘explosion’ by ‘increase’ Lines 44-45: it would be helpful for the reader to provide information about the recommendation of the use of Diaporthe over Phomopsis (Rossman et al. 2015 IMA Fungus 6:145-154). Many researchers still use the generic name Phomopsis. Line 68: remove italics in ‘and’ Line 103: remove the first ‘was’ Line 260: rewrite ‘While Woese & Fox (1977) suggested…’ Line 293: ‘While Walker et al. (2012)…’ Line 313: ‘where we changed’ Line 343: ‘D. eres’ instead of ‘Diaporthe eres’ Line 346: resolution of this ‘species complex’ Line 351: rewrite ‘in the same clade could be due to the fact that …’
Experimental design
label_ed_1
All the experiments led to solid conclusions. Experiments have been conducted rigorously, with appropriate replications.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results are indeed interesting. The conclusions are drawn appropriately based on the data presented.
Cite this review as
Gramaje D ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evaluating multi-locus phylogenies for species boundaries determination in the genus Diaporthe (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3120v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 29, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall writing is clear, but there are minor grammatical errors (subject verb, incorrect word usage) Good background, references are thorough Article structure is professional Results are relevant to hypothesis
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Novel analysis with published sequence data Adressed an important question- which and how many loci are needed to speciate a certain group of fungi Analyses were applied appropriately Methods were thorough
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
replication of analyses, in terms of the hypothesized phylogenetic structure of the genus Sequence data available from genbank and appropriate phylogenic analysis and model tests were completed The conclusions in the Discussion are appropriate and not over stated Speculation is minimal, and the paper rightly points out the lack of utility of ITS for fungal phylogenetic analysis when used alone.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
There are grammatical errors that need to be fixed in an editorial fashion, and should not require additional review. These are relatively minor and do not confuse the reader. I think trees and data should be submitted to treebase? I may have missed this. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Evaluating multi-locus phylogenies for species boundaries determination in the genus Diaporthe (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3120v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 23, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
