Review History for Improving ancient DNA genome assembly [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Improving ancient DNA genome assembly To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 20th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 6th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on January 12th, 2017 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on February 25th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 27th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Thomas Rattei
·
Feb 27, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The concerns of the reviewers have all been satisfactorily addressed. Thanks!
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 25, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Thomas Rattei
·
Jan 25, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thanks for addressing the issues raised in the previous review. Before we can accept the manuscript, it requires several minor changes and corrections. Please follow the recommendations of the reviewer, as indicated in the annotated PDF. We look forward to receiving your final version of the manuscript soon and promise to quickly process it.
label_author_1
Niall O'Sullivan ·
Jan 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The basic reporting style is well done. However, I would recommend that the authors once again review the English language with the assistance of a more fluent speaker. The structure of the introduction could be revised, with the deletion of some redundant points. Also some points of information lack references to back them up (see attached review).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Graphs and table are a little unclear. The authors should revise their structure. Also data from NCBI search must be added to the supplement (see attached review).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The points made are mostly minor in regards to presentation and structure. If these are resolved then I see no further reason not to publish this article. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
O'Sullivan N ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Improving ancient DNA genome assembly (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3126v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 12, 2017
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Thomas Rattei
·
Oct 6, 2016
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
In addition to the prior reviewing process from the German Conference on Bioinformatics I have asked an expert from the field of ancient DNA bioinformatics to review the manuscript. The referees' comments were generally positive and, in principle, we would be pleased to publish the manuscript. However, I ask that you consider the points raised by the referee. Please either answer them in a revised version or explain why they are not relevant.
label_author_2
Niall O'Sullivan ·
Oct 4, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Basic reporting meets the standards and templates of this journal. However, I found serious issues with the presentation of the data and the language. I go into specific detail with an annotated manuscript. But in general the clarity of the text needs to be improved. I found a lot of repetition. The authors should review the English again a few times perhaps with the aid of a more fluent researcher. I have reservations regarding the presentation and structure of the manuscript. I found that in sections the paragraph order and and placement could be improved. The paragraphs with the most important points are often in the middle of a section. More importantly the sections are not systematically ordered. With elements of the introduction in the M&M, M&M in results, results in discussion and elements that ought to be in the introduction found in the discussion. Most importantly the article is desperately under referenced. Especially in the discussion which makes many sweeping statements without reference to back them up. In the introduction there needs to be more reference to technical papers on ancient DNA. Which are abundant. Figures need to be tidied up. In general the axes appear messy. They are poorly referenced to in text too.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The design of the experiment is encouraging but lacks sufficient empirical data. I am confused as to why, with the great availability of aDNA metagenomes from a vast array of different studies, the authors chose to analyse such a small cohort. Worryingly they chose not to include the results of lower coverage data that were analysed but excluded. This needs to be addressed more substantially than the authors have done already. Otherwise the cohort size should be increased. The efficacy of their approach is based on increased percentage of >1X mapping across the genome between several de novo assemblies. However, the authors acknowledge that these are in mainly non-specific repetitive regions that could come from several strains of mycobacteria or organisms. The authors need to discuss more substantially the possibility that the contigs may be assembled from several organisms and quantify in some way contamination.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Conclusions need to put to the end of the manuscript. There needs to be more data analysed, using the vast amount of metagenomic data already available. There needs to be more discussion as to the utility of filling in the gaps in the reconstructed genome. What information can be potentially gleaned? What new useful information does the assembled and re-mapped mycobacteria leprae genome have?
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
O'Sullivan N ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Improving ancient DNA genome assembly (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3126v0.1/reviews/1 External reviews were received for this submission. These reviews were used by the Editor when they made their decision, and can be downloaded below. Download Original Submission (PDF)
Download external reviews
- submitted Sep 20, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
