Review History for Comparative proteomics of Rhizopus delemar ATCC 20344 unravels the role of amino acid catabolism in fumarate accumulation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Comparative proteomics of Rhizopus delemar ATCC 20344 unravels the role of amino acid catabolism in fumarate accumulation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 18th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 12th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on March 1st, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 1st, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Mar 1, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I would like to thank you for your efforts to address reviewers' comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 1, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Feb 12, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address all issues indicated by both reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 9, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In this manuscript, the authors studied metabolic pathways involved in fumarate production in Rhizopus delemar ATCC 20344. Transcriptomics and proteomics approaches were applied to reveal relevant components in fumarate accumulation by comparing nitrogen starved ATCC 20344 under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Data confirms the presence of directly linked proteins in fumarate production. Data also indicates other amino acid catabolism pathways may interplay in fumarate accumulation. The comparative proteomics data is quite informative, which provides deeper understanding to mechanism of fumarate biosynthesis in ATCC 20344, but also opens a gate to researchers who are interested in any metabolic pathways in Rhizopus delemar.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The study is well planned and well carried out.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusion is largely based on the screen data, which needs further validation with biochemical approaches.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Specific concerns: 1.The authors proposed “The resulting fluxes through the urea cycle yield an excess of fumarate.” It is based on the screen data from proteomics study. As urea cycle stands out and it shows in the last sentence of abstract, it needs more support. Have you confirmed the involvement of urea cycle biochemically, like measuring the content of urea in aerobic/anaerobic conditions? 2.Line 328-334: These proteins are discussed in Fig. 1 and readers would be curious about how they act quantitatively in two studied conditions. I have found PYC (2.14±0.31/0.40±0.02/2.44) is quite interesting only after taking an effort to locate it in a large supplementary excel file. I suggest that you have those presented and discussed in main text. 3.Fig2, Line 242: “allowed ATCC 20344 to grow at a normal rate,” How to define “a normal rate”? Is it a same rate as under aerobic condition? Did you count the cell population before and after (over 100 hours) the fermentation? Were cells still alive? I would like to see fumarate yield in “g/g ATCC 20344” if possible. 4.The supplementary data in excel files is carefully organized. A title will make it better. 5.Line 351-357, Line370-382: Please provide references. Thank you! Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Comparative proteomics of Rhizopus delemar ATCC 20344 unravels the role of amino acid catabolism in fumarate accumulation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3133v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Zhiqun Xie ·
Feb 12, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
* Based on the information provided below, I checked the availability of the deposited raw data as required by PeerJ but failed to login. I just tried three times on February 2 of 2017. " Your raw data must be accessible at this location for review. Proteomics data: 1) PRIDE 2) PXD004600 3) http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/archive/login Accession details for review purposes: Username: reviewer14653@ebi.ac.uk Password: r1CpiwSv "
Experimental design
label_ed_2
* Line148: The authors mentioned that De novo assembly of the reads was performed using the IDBA-UD assembler v1.1. Although IDBA-UD demonstraed good performance in some benchmarks (e.g. http://cab.spbu.ru/software/spades/#benchmark ), there are three separate assemblers in IDBA-UD package, and IDBA-Tran should be used for transcriptome data (https://github.com/loneknightpy/idba). Please clearly described the name and version of the tools used in the work if the authors actually used IDBA-Tran in the work. * The different combinations of parameters used with the same sequence assembler on the same data usually produce quite different assemly results. I suggest the authors describe in detail (name, version number and parameters in a supplementary file) the software tools and the data used in each step in their RNA-seq sequence assembling and the downstream analysis, which could give the authors and other researchers a chance in the future to reproduce their results based on the available raw data. * Line217 and 301: In order that the future readers could reproduce the results, the authors should prepare a detailed method description (in a supplementary file) to describle how they assigned (mapped) enzymes to KEGG pathways.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
* Line297: The authors should explain more clear how EC numbers are assigned to the predicted proteins of the de novo contigs and to the RA 99-880 reference proteome. Namely, how the authors predicted (assigned) the protein function (EC number) of the predicted (six-frame translated) proteome and RA 99-880 reference proteome. * Line310: The collumn C in table S3 shows the number of proteins is 1970. I suggest the authors to briefly explain the relationship between this number and the numbers (1283, 1389, 1290, 1511) of proteins identified in Figure 3. * Line326: Table 3 demonstrated the significant increase of expression of the identified enzymes in the relevant metabolic pathways. The 2nd collumn (# ECs in reference pathway) and the 3rd collumn (# proteins (ECs) identified) could be more clear if the authors exchange the # ECs in brackets and the # proteins outside the brackets (for example, changing 16(12) into 12(16) as both 50 in 2nd collumn and 12 in 3rd collumn are # EC).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Although the manuscript needs some improvments in the details of method, data and results, but the authors presented the interesting findings in the economically important Rhizopus delemar ATCC 20344 and made a reasonable hypothesis with the data support (proteomic data accompanied by transcriptomic data) that the nitrogen starvation might induce an alternative amino acid metabolic pathway and then the pathway may contribute the fumarate accumulation. Although PeerJ does not require the novelty of the submitted research work but the authors presented a novel work and the community will benefit from their work. Cite this review as
Xie Z ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Comparative proteomics of Rhizopus delemar ATCC 20344 unravels the role of amino acid catabolism in fumarate accumulation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3133v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 18, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
