Review History for Distribution and establishment of the alien Australian redclaw crayfish, Cherax quadricarinatus, in South Africa and Swaziland [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Distribution and establishment of the alien Australian redclaw crayfish, Cherax quadricarinatus , in South Africa and Swaziland To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 5th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 13th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on March 1st, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 1st, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marta Sánchez
·
Mar 1, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for submitting a revised version of your manuscript. I am pleased to inform you that your ms has been accepted for publication in PeerJ
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 1, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marta Sánchez
·
Feb 13, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors, I have just received the comments of the 2 referees who are both positive about the manuscript and agree that only minor revisions are needed in order to make your manuscript publishable in PeerJ. I look forward to seeing the revised version of your manuscript
label_author_1
Jirí Patoka ·
Jan 12, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is well written, English is professional. The article has sufficient introduction and relevant references. Minor comments are labeled in the attached pdf. The structure, figs and tables are professional and relevant. Raw data are shared as supplement. The article represents an appropriate "unit of publication".
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The research is original and consistent with journal's aims and scope. The question is well-defined, because invasion of non-indigenous crayfish species is a problem highlighted in many countries. Monitoring of invasive species and prediction of their spread are very important for wildlife management and conservation of native species and entire ecosystems as well. The findings in the article are helpful in this regard. There are no conflicts with ethical standards and investigation and technical standard are suitable. Methoddological section is described with sufficient information to be reproducible.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data are robust, samplings covered complete season and many localities. Statistical analysis is adequate. Conclusion is well stated and connected with original research.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Dear authors, I reviewed the MS entitled "Distribution and establishment of the alien Australian redclaw crayfish, Cherax quadricarinatus, in South Africa and Swaziland". The paper is well writen, clear and focused on invasive behaviour of redclaw. This is a helpful addition to our knowledge about invasion of this crayfish species and is usable for wildlife management, policymakers and other stakeholders. Therefore, I recommend the paper for publication in PeerJ after minor revision. I suggest to add analysis of spread based not only on the distance from point of introduction but also on elevation (slope). Other suggested minor changes are labeled in the attached pdf. Sincerely, Jiri Patoka Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Patoka J ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Distribution and establishment of the alien Australian redclaw crayfish, Cherax quadricarinatus, in South Africa and Swaziland (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3135v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 13, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript entitled: "Distribution and establishment f the alien Australian redclawed, Cherax cuadricarinatus in South Africa and Swaziland by Nunes et al. deals a monitoring study focus in detecting the presence of this Native Australian freshwater species in two South African countries. The manuscript is well written and the ideas clearly exposed. The literature reference is suitable and the background of the study correctly presented. The study clearly shows the presence, establishment and spread of this species in the area of study. This finding in itself is an important finding alerting of the presence and spread of a species with great potential for causing negative impacts in the African ecosystems. The data are well analyzed and the conclusions to correct. I therefore recommend this work to be accepted for publication provided that some minor changes are provided.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is simple but correct and sufficient. The research question is well defined except in the lines 96-97. In these lines, the authors mention that they have further investigated the characteristic, abundance, biomass, sex ratio, body size and mass with distance of the introduction. However, these aspects are poorly defined in the material methods which need to be better structured in blocks regarding each issue investigated rather than in only 2: Field study and Study area. This also needs to be better structured in sub-sections in the results section according to material methods.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results are novel, data is robust, and conclusions clear. The findings are, therefore, valuable since they show the presence, establishment and spread, of an invasive species with negative potential impacts in the African ecosystems. However, some of the discussion needs to be done on the basis of the data found and some conclusions regarding abundance, biomass, sex ratio, body size and mass need to be better explained in Material and Methods and results in order to better discuss the findings. The discussion is a bit long and I would suggest making it at least one page shorter. Conclusions are fine regarding raising concern of the potential negative effects and the need to provide data for classification of this species as invasive. However, statements regarding the main findings of this work are missing or not stressed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Well written manuscript reporting an invasive species with great potential damage in African, Minor changes are suggested. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Distribution and establishment of the alien Australian redclaw crayfish, Cherax quadricarinatus, in South Africa and Swaziland (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3135v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 5, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
