Review History for The HOSPITAL score and LACE index as predictors of 30 day readmission in a retrospective study at a university-affiliated community hospital [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The HOSPITAL score and LACE index as predictors of 30 day readmission in a retrospective study at a university-affiliated community hospital To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 9th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 3rd, 2017. The first revision was submitted on February 28th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 1st, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Antonio Palazón-Bru
·
Mar 1, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors, After reading your revised version of the text, I think it has high standards to be published in PeerJ. Therefore, my decision is TO ACCEPT. Congratulations! With respect and warm regards, Dr Palazón-Bru (academic editor for PeerJ)
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 28, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Antonio Palazón-Bru
·
Feb 3, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear authors, Thank you very much for the opportunity to handle this paper. After reading it with the reports of the reviewers, I think it has scientific merit to be published in PeerJ, once some issues are solved by you. Therefore, my decision is MAJOR REVISION. With respect and warm regards, Dr Palazón-Bru (academic editor for PeerJ)
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 27, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is very well written, clear, well-structured and using professional English language. The study background and context is thoroughly described in the introduction, and adequately referenced. I would suggest on line 29 of the introduction to replace “The underlying causes...” by the “The underlying risk factors…”, since most of the factors mentioned are not a direct cause for readmission. The author mention a previous that compared the HOSPITAL with the LACE index (Garrison 2016), but failed to mention 2 other studies that compared these 2 scores: a) one in Denmark with around 20,000 medical patients. the HOSPITAL score significantly overperformed the LACE index (Cooksley QJM 2015); b) one prospective study in Switzerland, where the C-statistic was 0.70 for the HOSPITAL score and 0.56 for the LACE score (Aubert, Swiss Medical Weekly 2016). Please add these 2 other studies, either in the introduction, or in the discussion. It could be also highlighted that in the Garrison study, the patients were from the ambulant setting, and readmitted to any department, as opposed to only medical patients. Please add in Table 3 the number and percentage of patients identified with a diagnosis of cancer using the ICD codes (as surrogate for the “discharge from oncology”), along with the p value. As optional minor modification, the author might try to merge both figure 2 and 3, in order for the reader to better appreciate the comparison between the ROC curve of the HOSPITAL and LACE scores. Line 190: the C-statistic was 0.75 in this study, not 0.77, please correct. The figures and tables are relevant and of good quality. Lines 233-235: some other studies
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The study is original, and bring valuable information for the practice.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data collected are appropriate for the study question. Discussion is well-written and include the required information.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In this retrospective cohort study, the authors aimed to validate a prediction model (the HOSPITAL score) to identify patients at high risk for 30-day readmission. The populations studied is medical patients discharged from a moderate sized university affiliated hospital in the midwestern United States. In this population, the HOSPITAL score showed good performance. The article is well-written and methodology sounds. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "The HOSPITAL score and LACE index as predictors of 30 day readmission in a retrospective study at a university-affiliated community hospital (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3137v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 1, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors explored the performance of HOSPITAL score and LACE index to predict all cause 30-day readmissions using 432 discharges from a university affiliated community hospital. Main concerns: (1) This paper conducted a similar comparison study as Garrison, 2016. But the conclusions are very different. In Garrison , 2016, their C-statistics were around 0.68 for both HOSPITAL score and LACE index; in this study, they were 0.75 and 0.58 and the difference was very significant. It would be important to understand the possible explanations for such a big difference. (2) The authors in this paper showed that their results is comparable to the results from Donze et al, 2016. But I don't think it is a fair comparison considering that the readmissions here are all-cause and in Donze's are potentially avoidable readmissions. Minor concerns: (1) In Line 190, the authors mentioned the C statistics of 0.77 vs. 0.72. However, the C-stat seems 0.75 in this paper and 0.71 in Donze, 2016. (2) Figure 2 and Figure 3 can be in the same plot to be concise and to compare explicitly.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Major concerns: (1) It is not mentioned in this paper that how many multiple readmissions from the same patient are considered, which I think is very important, especially considering here the smaller sample size and higher hospital admissions for the same patient. Specifically, I would suggest the authors to explicitly show how many distinct patients there are in the in 432 adult discharges, and how many distinct patients there are in the 35 readmissions. The authors need to show what to do to make the results valid if multiple readmission is in deed a concern in the data.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
There are several paragraphs with only single sentence in the section of Materials and Methods and the section of Statistical Analysis. I would suggest the authors to combine some of them to make the paper neat and nice. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "The HOSPITAL score and LACE index as predictors of 30 day readmission in a retrospective study at a university-affiliated community hospital (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3137v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 9, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
