Review History for Trypanosoma cruzi reservoir—triatomine vector co-occurrence networks reveal meta-community effects by synanthropic mammals on geographic dispersal [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Trypanosoma cruzi reservoir—triatomine vector co-occurrence networks reveal meta-community effects by synanthropic mammals on geographic dispersal To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 15th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 8th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on February 10th, 2017 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 6th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Erika Braga
·
Mar 6, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All comments have been properly addressed.
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 4, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I am very happy with the revised manuscript. The authors have done a good work.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
excellent
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
good
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
he authors have done a good work in the revision of their manuscript. A paper that merits publication in Peer J Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Trypanosoma cruzi reservoir—triatomine vector co-occurrence networks reveal meta-community effects by synanthropic mammals on geographic dispersal (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3152v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 10, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Erika Braga
·
Oct 8, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The manuscript consists of a considerable and interesting data set that adds an important contribution to the field. There are some points that need to be well addressed as detailed by the two expert reviewers. Please consider focusing the abstract highlighting the main results obtained. Please, also clarify the technical terms used and all the method strategies to make the paper clearer to the readers.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 6, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In general, the writing is very dense with ideas expressed in more complicated terms than necessary. Most of the ideas presented throughout the manuscript need to be unpacked and more clearly laid out, starting right from the title, which is very dense. Technical terms used throughout the manuscript should be defined.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results need to be given in more detail and much more thoroughly interpreted (and in plain English) rather than just stated. They are presented quite generally, and the reader is left to infer their meaning. For example- in the abstract the authors write that the 'network analyses allows us to predict not only potential host species but also regions with greater parasite mobility,' but then neither of these things are specifically reported in the paper- which mammal species? which bug species? which connections were most important? which geographic regions? These are the details that would make the paper interesting. Merely saying that synanthropic mammals have a major influence is not enough, and also, not breaking news. Also, the figures are too busy and it is unclear what the authors intended to show with each figure, i.e., what the take home message is.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
A stronger and more detailed justification for the work would improve the manuscript. How will this work and similar works fill holes/ help to solve challenges in Chagas disease ecology research? I'm sure there are benefits, but it was not clear. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Trypanosoma cruzi reservoir—triatomine vector co-occurrence networks reveal meta-community effects by synanthropic mammals on geographic dispersal (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3152v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 8, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This is a very good study on the use of network analysis in hosts-vectors interactions applied for Chagas disease. The analysis showed that synanthropic animals play and important role in the network architecture. The methodology is good and based on a large database of mammals and the arthropod vectors of the trypanosome, agent of Chagas disease. I have few comments, mainly concerning some missing definitions and potential references that the authors may consider. In the Introduction: the authors should give a definition of “synanthropy”, the authors can see this term intensively discussed in: Khlyap LA, Warshavsky AA. 2010 Synanthropic and agrophilic rodents as invasive alien mammals. Russ J Biol Invasions 1:301–312. McFarlane R et al. 2012. Synanthropy of wild mammals as a determinant of emerging infectious diseases in the Asian-Australasian region. EcoHealth 9, 24–35. There are few references on the use of networks in epidemiology, I propose two among the many ones: Gomez JM, Nunn CL, Verdu, M 2013 Centrality in primate-parasite networks reveals the potential for the transmission of emerging infectious diseases to humans. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA, 110, 7738-7741. Pilosof S, Morand S, Krasnov BR, Nunn CL 2015 Potential parasite transmission in multi-host networks based on parasite sharing. PLoS ONE, 10, e0117909. In Materials and Methods: add the names of the packages used (and authors’ references) in the discussion: concerning the network architecture change in relation to habitat fragmentation: Bordes F et al. 2015 Habitat fragmentation alters the properties of a host-parasite network: rodents and their helminths in South-East Asia. Journal of Animal Ecology 84, 1253–1263 supplementary data: add the R scripts of the analyses
Experimental design
label_ed_3
In Materials and Methods: add the names of the packages used (and authors’ references) supplementary data: add the R scripts of the analyses
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
robust data, and results obtained with appropriate methologies
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Trypanosoma cruzi reservoir—triatomine vector co-occurrence networks reveal meta-community effects by synanthropic mammals on geographic dispersal (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3152v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 15, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
