Review History for Schistosome tegumental ecto-apyrase (SmATPDase1) degrades exogenous pro-inflammatory and pro-thrombotic nucleotides [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Schistosome tegumental ecto-apyrase (SmATPDase1) degrades exogenous pro-inflammatory and pro-thrombotic nucleotides To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 13th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 7th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on February 21st, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on March 1st, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 4th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Christopher Jolly
·
Mar 4, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Prof Skelly. Thanks for the revisions and for your rebuttal email. The paper reads very clearly now, and I think makes a worthy contribution to PeerJ.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 1, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Christopher Jolly
·
Feb 28, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Prof Skelly, Thank you for your revised manuscript, and my apologies for taking a few days to review it. I feel that your revisions mostly address the criticisms raised by the reviewers, and that the work is suitable for PerrJ. However, the meaning of the repeated statement "The data shown are representative of at least x independent experiments" is ambiguous, having two possible readings - 1 or 2 below: (1) The statement could mean that for each histogram shown for an experiment, n=x, and the data points contributing to each mean were generated in separate experiments, where n=1 in each repeat. In other words, the data are not "representative of ... x experiments", but are, in fact, a summary of all data collected, and that n=x. (2) The statement could mean that the experiment was performed =x times with a number of replicates (n) each time, and that the data shown is from one of those experiments. (This is what I take "data are representative of x experiments" to usually mean.) In this case, the number of replicates "n" for the actual representative experiment shown, has still not been given, but should be given. Could you re-word the figure legends to ensure that only one, and not both, of the above two readings are implied please? regards Chris Jolly
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 21, 2014
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Christopher Jolly
·
Feb 7, 2014
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
1. Please indicate how many replicates were used to generate each mean value depicted in all Figures. Also define error bars as indicating SEM or SD. In addition, it would also be useful to know how many times experiments were repeated. 2. In Figure 1, please show background (i.e. minus parasite) hydrolysis rates to demonstrate that hydrolysis is due to worm enzyme activity.
label_author_1
Stephen Davies ·
Feb 3, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a clearly written and insightful manuscript on a fascinating and potentially important aspect of schistosome biology. The introduction and discussion are thorough and appropriately reference prior literature.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors are to be commended for examining nucleosidase function using RNAi - the most rigorous and direct approach currently available for this kind of gene function study in schistosomes. This is challenging and difficult work.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The experiments are beautifully executed and the data are robust and convincing. I had only a couple of minor concerns regarding the presentation and interpretation of the data: Figure 1 – would have been helpful to include inorganic phosphate accumulation for control wells lacking parasites, to get a sense of the background levels of hydrolysis in this assay, if any. Paragraph starting line 284 – RNAi does appear to specifically reduce the levels of protein present in the treated parasites. However, I would avoid use of descriptors such as “substantial” (line 288) unless the reduction has been actually quantified (by densitometry etc). It is puzzling that the SmATPDase displays optimal activity for ATP at a slightly alkaline pH. One would have expected that activity would be maximal at neutral pH. Could this be an adaptation to exhibit maximal activity when under attack from immune cells, where an oxidative burst would presumably be associated with local alkalization? Is there any evidence that expression of SmATPDase or any of the other nucleosidases is up-regulated as part of a stress response to external insults such as oxidative stress?
Cite this review as
Davies S ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Schistosome tegumental ecto-apyrase (SmATPDase1) degrades exogenous pro-inflammatory and pro-thrombotic nucleotides (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.316v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 22, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The work is well posited, properly presented and well documented including updated references. The conclusions are in accordance with the results obtained.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The methodology used is appropriate and justified, and the different techniques employed are in accordance with the proposed aims. In general, this methodology is described in a clear, rigorous and detailed way.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results of the experiments are clear. However, in order to evaluate their soundness, authors should clearly indicate how many replications within each group are performed in the experiments. Equally it should be indicated on the Figures if the represented values are the mean of various essays and, if this is the case, indicate the number as well. It is not specified to that correspond the error bars, if they represent standard deviation or standard error. Erroneously the table 1 has been titled as Figure 7.
Comments for the author
The work of Da'dara et al. is an interesting article that provides novel and relevant information in the field. Once corrected or clarified the indicated points, I consider that the work can be published in PeerJ. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Schistosome tegumental ecto-apyrase (SmATPDase1) degrades exogenous pro-inflammatory and pro-thrombotic nucleotides (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.316v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 13, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
