Review History for Preliminary observations on the age and growth of dog snapper (Lutjanus jocu) and mahogany snapper (Lutjanus mahogoni) from the Southeastern U.S. [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Preliminary observations on the age and growth of dog snapper ( Lutjanus jocu ) and mahogany snapper ( Lutjanus mahogoni ) from the Southeastern U.S. To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 7th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 7th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on March 9th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 10th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Mar 10, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you very much for improving your manuscript and congratulations.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 9, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Feb 7, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please, amend your manuscript according to the suggestions given.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 28, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
see attached review
Experimental design
label_ed_1
see attached review
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
see attached review
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
see attached review Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Preliminary observations on the age and growth of dog snapper (Lutjanus jocu) and mahogany snapper (Lutjanus mahogoni) from the Southeastern U.S. (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3167v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 18, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I printed the text and made many comments directly on that copy - which I scanned into the attached pdf, minus the figures. The pdf I received had the figures somewhat poorly aligned. I had, though, no problem in deciding the general layout. This paper solidly details, as the authors admit, a preliminary effort to document length/weight, age and growth dynamics of these two relatively rarely encountered species within the geographic range studied. The preliminary aspect here is a result of the great length of time during which specimens were available (weak cohort representation), and the relative paucity of specimens observed over the wide age ranges for each species. Also admitted by the authors, is that this type of information is critical to future potential management regulations for the larger snapper-grouper species complex. It seems then that this paper should be made available to your readership.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This study is a very straight-forward age/growth study of these two species. Standard protocol was followed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
With the exceptions listed above, this study is important in establishing the basic aging and growth parameters of these two species when viewed as preliminary data for the possible future management of these fishes. Because the occurrence of these species is obviously rare in both the recreational and commercial catches in the area investigated, having size and longevity information for them can impact their treatment (small species complex vs. large species complex) in management decisions.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The layout of the paper might be reconsidered. In addition to editorial remarks made on the scanned manuscript, there are a few comments worthy of mention here. Line 27 and line 48 - Please define here your geographic limits. Does SEUS include the GOM? Line 46 - Should common names also be capitalized? AFS new standards? Lines 60 - 78 - Consider placing this information in the results? Lines 80 - 90 - Consider placing this information in the discussion? Line 109 - Indicate again here geographically where the SEUS occurs Line 118 - You indicated in the abstract that Total length = TL. It should also be introduced here. Line 134 - Confused by "... generally recorded ..." Line 175 - Does south Florida waters include the GOM, or does it only include the portion of southwest Florida that happens to be in that body of water? Line 247, 248 - Italicize species names Line 262 - Citation error Line 270 - 274 - Are you indicating that the Dog Snapper was taken from deep waters off of NC vs, shallower water in more southerly areas? This is not clearly stated here. Line 291, 292 - Citation errors Line 332 - Citation not found in text Line 335 - Poor literature listing Line 369 - Isn't there a later edition of the FAO work? Lines 405, 410 - Author's initials confused? Line 532 - Explain what 'edge type' refers to, or cite the text for explanation. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Preliminary observations on the age and growth of dog snapper (Lutjanus jocu) and mahogany snapper (Lutjanus mahogoni) from the Southeastern U.S. (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3167v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 7, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
