Review History for Extraordinary incidence of cervical ribs indicates vulnerable condition in Late Pleistocene mammoths [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Extraordinary incidence of cervical ribs indicates vulnerable condition in Late Pleistocene mammoths To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 4th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 24th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on February 27th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 4th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Andrew Farke
·
Mar 4, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I noted two minor typos that should be fixed during production: line 28: remove extra semicolon in reference list line 99: "tobe" needs space in it
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 27, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Andrew Farke
·
Feb 24, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
1) The suggestions by the reviewers are generally quite reasonable, and should be incorporated as suggested. I have a copy of the manuscript with some additional suggestions and copy-edits, which I will email separately. 2) Reviewer 1 questions the choice of statistical test, and I agree that this should be given some thought. A G-test of independence may be most appropriate here--see Farke 2007 for one explanation of statistical approaches to pathologies and other anomalies (Farke, A. A. 2007. Reexamination of paleopathology in plesiosaurs. Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology 27:724-726.)
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 19, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is consistent with journal policies as I understand them. There are some minor problems with English expression that will be noted in comments below.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methodology is clearly described. The only procedural question I was left with is why the authors used Barnard’s test rather than Fisher’s Exact test. Because of time limitations, I cannot now pursue this issue further.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This is an interesting set of observations. Still, the sample is so small that despite the significant p-value, it is hard to be confident that the effect is biologically significant. See the article by Nuzzo on statistical errors in a recent Nature. With respect to statistics, it also seems it would be relevant to report the actual p-value, not just that it was lower than 0.5.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Additional comment for the authors’ consideration: 1. Lines 88-92: It is certainly possible that large articulation facets might be associated with large ribs, but it is not clear to me that this would necessarily be so. Nor is it clear why the size of cervical ribs would be “negatively correlated with fitness” even if their existence is negatively correlated with fitness. Editorial recommendations: In abstract, do not abbreviate approximately as “approx.” Line 35: insert “the” before “C6”. Line 36, 43, 50, 93: use lower-case “l” for “late”; time interval is informal. Line 39: insert “closely” after “most”. Line 40, 46, 76: use lower-case “a” in “africana”. Line 76: change “did have” to “had”. Line 83, 84: use singular “incidence” because the usage is generic, not enumerative. For line 84, “An incidence higher than 25% has only ….” Line 96: insert space before “(Palma”. Line 106: change “intensive” to “intense”. Line 108: delete “a”. Line 110: change to “explanation for the”. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Extraordinary incidence of cervical ribs indicates vulnerable condition in Late Pleistocene mammoths (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.318v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
jannikke Räikkönen ·
Feb 18, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is clearly written and meets the appropriate standard. In general Some minor format styles need to be addressed in order to conform to PeerJ style. In text citations: Multiple references to the same item should be ordered chronologically. Change from alphabetical order to chronological order at lines: 11-12; 18-19; 21-22; 27-28; 85-86; 86-87; 92; 104-105. Reference section: write full journal name at L144 and L177 so it conforms to the other references. Do not use “and” between author names. Other formatting: L58, L75 and L88: Point should follow “Fig” or “Figs”. Also, uppercase letters should be used for each figure part in the figure text to Figure 1 so it conforms to PeerJ style. The abstract states: “Here we show that the incidence of abnormal cervical vertebral numbers in late Pleistocene mammoths recovered from the North Sea is high (33.3%)…. Abnormal numbers were due to the presence of large cervical ribs on the seventh vertebra”. This text can give the impression that the complete cervical spine was analyzed in each specimen i.e that the abnormal number of non-transitional vertebrae also was analyzed but the only type of numerical variation found was cervical ribs. This sentence must be clarified e.g “Here we show that the incidence of partial homeotic transformation in late Pleistocene mammoths recovered from the North Sea is high (33.3%)” and then delete Abnormal numbers were.. or/and revise the text further. Methods section L49: insert “mammoth” between “All” and “specimens” to clarify. Figures Figure 1 is very good and relevant to the content of the article. I do only have improvement suggestions to Figure 1: The inset with the articulation facet in 1D) is great and clarifying to the readers. The other figures (A, B, C) would improve with the same type of inset that shows the articulation facet. Also, for the convenience of the readers it could be clarified what is left/right in the picture and what is left/right on the specimen.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Because of the fact that the development of cervical ribs has been documented in the literature as a sign of disturbance in early embryogenesis, I think the findings in this study are very important. Even if the sample size is very small and the fact that complete vertebral columns were not available.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a short but very interesting study of skeletal pathology in late Pleistocene mammoths. I recommend this manuscript for publication in PeerJ. Suggestion to the Discussion section: L101-115: A review about the relationship between the magnitude of inbreeding depression and environmental stress is useful to cite somewhere in the text, for example: Armbruster P, Reed DH. 2005. Inbreeding depression in benign and stressful environments. Heredity 95:235–242. Cite this review as
Räikkönen j ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Extraordinary incidence of cervical ribs indicates vulnerable condition in Late Pleistocene mammoths (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.318v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Ralf-Dietrich Kahlke ·
Feb 6, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_3
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_3
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No Comments
Comments for the author
A few formal proposals: In the headline the provenance of the fossils (North Sea) and the species (Mammuthus primigenius) should be mentioned. The Late Pleistocene is defined as a chronostratigraphic unit. Therefore a capital letter should be consequently used for “Late”. Line 76: africana instead of “Africana”. Line 82: The statement is generalized to all mammoths. It should be related to the number of the examined fossils and the area of their origins. Figure: The figured vertebrae should be isolated from their inhomogeneous backgrounds. Probably it would be helpful to figure the bones in scale to each other and to add just one graphical scale. The arrows should be explained in the caption. Cite this review as
Kahlke R ( 2014 ) Peer Review #3 of "Extraordinary incidence of cervical ribs indicates vulnerable condition in Late Pleistocene mammoths (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.318v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 4, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
