Review History for Floral pathway integrator gene expression mediates gradual transmission of environmental and endogenous cues to flowering time [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Floral pathway integrator gene expression mediates gradual transmission of environmental and endogenous cues to flowering time To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 11th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 20th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on March 10th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 17th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Gerrit Beemster
·
Mar 17, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
To my mind all remarks have been adequately addressed, so the manuscript is suitable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 10, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Gerrit Beemster
·
Feb 20, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Two independent reviewers were very positive about the approach, the results and the overall presentation. However, they pointed a few minor issues that could easily be addressed in order to improve the clarity (discussion item and figure issue) and impact (availability of the data) of the manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 15, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript is based on a model of flowering time in Arabidopsis that the authors published recently (reference 18). Here they use an array of published expression data and flowering-time data to show that there is a direct correlation between the expression levels of key floral integrator genes and flowering time. Although in itself this is perhaps not surprising since many of these floral integrator genes act rather late in the flowering process, it is striking that considering the genetic complexity of flowering control the expression levels of a few genes are sufficient to predict the outcome. The manuscript is clearly written and conforms to Peer J standards. The figures are necessary and well labelled. I would like the raw data that was used for the analyses to be made available. Although they collected a lot of RT-PCR and flowering-time data. The sources of these data are listed in Table I. However, the authors have made a considerable effort to collect all of these data together and I think all of the collected raw data should be made available, perhaps as supplementary information.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The analysis seems robust, but I am not a mathematician or modeller. The research question and data analysis are well described.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusions and outcome of the study are clear. In the Discussion they clearly state the difficulties of incorporating data collected under different conditions at different times by different experimentalists. I think an additional difficulty is that many of these genes are expressed at different times and some of them are actually expressed in flowers, such as SOC1 and LEAFY. So perhaps in some experiments the increase in SOC1 and LFY mRNA levels is because the plant has started to form flowers; if this is the case then a correlation between this increase in expression and flowering would be trivial. Perhaps the authors should engage a bit more in the Discussion on the difficulties inherent in the spatial and temporal regulation of these genes, which is rather underestimated by relying entirely on RT-PCR data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
None Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Floral pathway integrator gene expression mediates gradual transmission of environmental and endogenous cues to flowering time (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3197v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 19, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Aalt Van Dijk and Jaap Molenaar present a straightforward but interesting study on the relationship between floral pathway gene expression and flowering time in Arabidopsis thaliana. To this end, they use both simulations using a previously published modeling framework and fitting procedures on expression data and flowering times measured under various conditions or in different genetic backgrounds. They conclude that flowering time depends linearly on the expression levels of floral pathway integrator genes, and that this gradual, linear response of flowering time to upstream expression changes enables Arabidopsis to gradually adapt to changing environmental factors. I have very little to remark on the study. The methodology appears to be sound, the results are interesting, both from a systems biology and an evolutionary perspective, and the text is no-nonsense and well-written. The study contains both simulation results on an earlier model and experimental data fits that corroborate the simulation results. Overall, this is a well-performed study that generates interesting insights into the quantitative aspects of flowering time control, which, if confirmed in crops, might be useful in a breeding context. A few minor remarks: -I had some trouble with the grey dotted lines in Figure 1, which the legend says ‘indicate five-fold expression range around the expression level at day 10’ . I assume that this is the expression level at day 10 in the unperturbed model. Is it correct that this interval is determined by taking the expression level at day 10 and then dividing/multiplying it by sqrt(5) ? It might be good to indicate the actual level at day 10 in a separate color. -line 296: ‘import’ should be ‘important’.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
no comment Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Floral pathway integrator gene expression mediates gradual transmission of environmental and endogenous cues to flowering time (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3197v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 11, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
