Review History for A new molecular diagnostic tool for surveying and monitoring Triops cancriformis populations [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A new molecular diagnostic tool for surveying and monitoring Triops cancriformis populations To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 7th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 23rd, 2017. The first revision was submitted on March 25th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 25th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Mar 25, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for imrproving your manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 25, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Jan 23, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
All three reviewers recommended Minor Revisions. Please revise your manuscript according to their suggestions.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 12, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors are clear and report copious data.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experiment was well designed and rigorously conducted. The methods were meticulous.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I was thoroughly convinced that the authors found a viable way to assess T. cancriformis egg banks in the wild.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
See attached. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "A new molecular diagnostic tool for surveying and monitoring Triops cancriformis populations (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3228v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Diego Fontaneto ·
Jan 16, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript compares three main methods to monitor a charismatic and endangered species of freshwater crustaceans, typical of ephemeral water pools. The study is clear, interesting, supported, and potentially useful also as a reference for other species.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Good and reliable experimental design and analytical settings.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The manuscript provides compelling evidence in the comparison between the methods, and provides a well-thought inference on the time and costs associated to each method. In order to provide more convincing support for some sentences, I suggest performing additional statistical tests. In detail: - Line 356-362: it would be good to test if the differences were significant or not, especially to support the statement that potentially extinct sites had a higher proportion of deteriorated eggs; the same holds true for the statements on line 470-492. - Line 377-378: it would be good to test for the significance of the differences to be able to state “depending on the method”. - Line 524-527: it would be good to provide a list of the other taxa that have been identified through the BLAST comparison of COI, so that all readers can be convinced by the reliability of the explanations; especially because ‘microorganisms’ may simply mean bacteria for most readers.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I can highlight only few minor issues to further improve the strength of the manuscript. Line 33: provide author and year of the species at its first citation. Line 62-65: the sentence is awkward to read. Line 78: ‘for’ repeated twice. Line 189: 7 days of hydroperiod, whereas figure 1 and lines 202-203, and 220 report 8 days. Line 202: provide a reference for HotShot DNA extraction at its first citation. Line 223: I am not sure that ‘destroyed’ is the correct term for the preservation in ethanol. Line 294: five long sequences mentioned in the methods, but only four are mentioned in the results on line 394. Line 614 and figure 1: T. Cancriformis -> T. cancriformis. Cite this review as
Fontaneto D ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "A new molecular diagnostic tool for surveying and monitoring Triops cancriformis populations (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3228v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Miloslav Jirku ·
Jan 22, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article provides novel monitoring method. Well and clearly written and referenced. Good job!
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Design-related comments that sould be addressed in the MM section: 1) How uniformly were the samples taken from within the boundaries of the ponds? Were the samples from middle and marginal parts of individual pools considered equal? Of course, I am mentioning this, because highest concentrations of Triops, and possibly their eggs(?), are regularly present in central parts of the pools shortly before they dry out. Was this phenomenon considered in sampling design? 2) There is no clear indication, whether the pools were dry, or (to same degree) full at the time of sampling. In the latter case, the places holding highest eggs concentrations could theoretically remain unsampled. 3) Are there some comparative environmental data available for individual pools? Especially character and density of vegetation, physical disturbances (erosion, movement of animals or vehicles etc.), and intensity of grazing might be important factors influencing quality of habitat and possibly Triops stocks in individual pools. (According to my experience, undisturbed pools, which are subject to succession, i.e. overgrowing by plants, accumulation of plant debris and other sediments etc., tend to lose their Triops populations very fast, no matter how numerous the populations are.) I can imagine the environmental factors might be subject of another partial study, but am missing at least basic info on this in the presented manuscript.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Sound
Comments for the author
1) I generally consider presentation of GPS locations in supplementary materials only rather unsuitable. Provision of coordinates in "Sample collection and preparation section" would be more convenient...or alternatively in Figure 4 after its slight modification – for example under individual letters in the right column (after widening the column a bit). In both cases not much or no extra space would be taken. 2) I noticed double „for“ in L78 Cite this review as
Jirku M ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "A new molecular diagnostic tool for surveying and monitoring Triops cancriformis populations (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3228v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 7, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
