Review History for The Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS): utility in college students with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS): utility in college students with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 31st, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 31st, 2014. The first revision was submitted on February 27th, 2014 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 7th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jafri Abdullah
·
Mar 7, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for submitting the revised manuscript which has been reviewed favorably and accepted for publication.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 3, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article has sufficient introduction and background.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Methods has been described with sufficient information.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusion has been stated appropriately.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "The Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS): utility in college students with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.324v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 27, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jafri Abdullah
·
Jan 31, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Authors,Please do the relevant (major revisions) as required by the two peer reviewers.Do sent them as soon as possible so as the manuscript can be re-reviewed by same people.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 31, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This report has sufficient introduction and literature background of the study. However, in reading this articles towards the end, the reviewer feels that the author may have tendency to suggest the reviewer to conform with the study (to agree Adult SRS is a good measurement in assessing ADHD in college students) rather than helping reviewer to understand the relationship the results with other measurement tools used in the study.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The author has a variety ways in getting information such in telephone interview, self-reporting and getting information from siginificant other. However, the author may need to carefully control the other variables such as range of IQ and range of psychiatric of symptomatology. This article could be better clarified as Adult ADHD Self Report Scale may have better outcomes in High Average college students (as author reported all the college students in this study only grouped in high average range, and not represent other IQ range such as average group or superior group).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The range of depression, obsessive compulsive and interpersonal sensitivity in this study has fallen into moderate range but it seems from analysis that it does not affect the overall data in Adult ADHD Self Report Scale which may rise a question to what extent the psychiatric symptomatology may interact with ADHD symptoms as we might predict some patients with ADHD has comorbidity with other psychiatric symptoms and rarely we could find such a large number of "pure" ADHD cases.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The author has done a great research in coming up with these data. However, the author may need to improve in discussing of all other findings that may have interact with the main objective of the study. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "The Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS): utility in college students with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.324v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Geurt van de Glind ·
Jan 27, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This study addressess "the robustness of student's self-reports of current ADHD-symptoms", related to question to what extend "the student's report of current symptoms is robust and that the reported symptomatology is not exaggerated or feigned". 135 students (mean age 24; 42% males) were included; 59 (=44%) were included in the analyses. My main concern with this study is that I doubt whether the central research question can be addressed with the current study design. In order to know more about "exaggerating symptoms" in a given disorder, it should be clear that the disorder is present or is not present. As there are no details on how the diagnosis of adult ADHD is obtained, this remains unclear. It seems to me the study addresses 1)test-retest reliability and 2) the external validity of the ASRS. In my opinion the central research question is not addressed. So either the paper should be rewritten, in order to have the main research question related to test-retest rliability and external validity of the ASRS in this population, or another design is necessary. As adult ADHD is a chronic condition that does not dissapear, it seems to me not logic why students with a confirmed diagnosis of ADHD would exaggerate or feign their symptoms? So the underlying research question is whether or not the ADHD diagnosis is true or false. And this cannot be answered with the given instruments/design. So in my view the only way the information can be used is rewrite the manuscript and focus on test-retest reliability and external validity of the ASRS in this population.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
1) It is unclear why the information on all of the included instruments that are used in the more extended study, are reported here. It is confusing; 2) Line 247 speaks of the "5-week working memory training program". Where does this come from, and why is this information given? 3) I suggest the authors to elaborate more on the consequences of the high drop-out rate. It seems to me that it might be that the 56% of cases that did not have a responding significant other might be related to ADHD symptom severity, or to "exaggerating symptoms"? I have too little statistical knowledge to think of the consequenses of this drop-out rate, related to the presented results. So I suggest the Editor to have a statistical expert look at the methods and results. 4) What did the participants and their significant others know about the purpose of this study? For knowledge on the purpose might have influenced the results? 5) To learn more about the reliability of reporting on ADHD-symptoms it seems weird that ADHD-medication should not be taken into account. If students do use ADHD medication, and they do so for a considerable period, they are asked to report on the ADHD symptoms of a long time ago. Hence, the conclusion that the ASRS can be used for monitoring ADHD symptoms cannot be drawn from this study, for it aks in a considerable part of the group, for ADHD-symptomatology in the past.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No additional comments: see the above mentioned issues.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_3
No additional comments. Cite this review as
van de Glind G ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "The Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS): utility in college students with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.324v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_4
Reviewer 3 ·
Jan 11, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_4
This is an excellent paper that is both clear and concise. I commend the authors for their work in this area and believe the paper should be published in PeerJ.
Experimental design
label_ed_4
No comments -- appropriate experimental design.
Validity of the findings
The findings are valid and placed in appropriate context.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #3 of "The Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS): utility in college students with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.324v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 31, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
