Review History for Microbial communities in sediment from Zostera marina patches, but not the Z. marina leaf or root microbiomes, vary in relation to distance from patch edge [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Microbial communities in sediment from Zostera marina patches, but not the Z. marina leaf or root microbiomes, vary in relation to distance from patch edge To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 4th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 7th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on March 7th, 2017 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 29th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Gerrit Beemster
·
Mar 29, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The reviewers are happy with the revisions you made, and therefore the manuscript is acceptable for publication in PeerJ.
label_author_1
Erik Verbruggen ·
Mar 29, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I have re-read the manuscript and I carefully went through the rebuttal and checked which changes were made. I believe the authors have done an excellent job in improving their manuscript and think it now makes a great contribution to the field. I have no further suggestions to improve the work.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Cite this review as
Verbruggen E ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Microbial communities in sediment from Zostera marina patches, but not the Z. marina leaf or root microbiomes, vary in relation to distance from patch edge (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3246v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 7, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Gerrit Beemster
·
Feb 7, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviews are relatively favourable, but in particular, Reviewer 1 does raise a number of issues that need to be addressed appropriately. Please respond to all the comments in your revision.
label_author_2
Erik Verbruggen ·
Jan 19, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript entitled "The Zostera marina rhizosphere microbiome, but not the leaf or root associated communities, varies in relation to distance from edge" by Ettinger et al. describes an analysis of root, shoot, and sediment microbiomes associated with patches of eelgrass, where they distinguish those located more inside a patch, those at the edge, and for sediment also those outside of patches. While the experiment is relatively modest (sampling 4 quadrats of eelgrass) the authors nicely show that there are some general differences between plants and sediments in terms of microbiome, and that within sediments the location in reference to the edge appears to make a difference. The authors go on to argue that this may be a suitable model system to study marine plant-microbiome interactions, with the arguments that eelgrass already is a model system in many marine ecological studies, and because their results suggest that there may be some functional links in terms of nitrogen and sulfur cycling based on taxa found to associate with eelgrass. The latter is generally not overstated in the manuscript which it shouldn't, because we don't know whether 1) these organisms are on or in the eelgrass, 2) whether they do perform these functions, and 3) whether it has any effect on plant performance/fitness. As the authors acknowledge sampling one seagrass-bed, and not contrasted against other plants, is not enough to really conclude anything about host or tissue specificity. Concerning the statistics and interpretation, this is generally appropriate and well described. However, judging from Fig 2 there appears to be quite a difference in multivariate dispersion between sediment- and plant associated communities. As Warton et al. (2012) report PERMANOVA may be sensitive to this, so I suggest to consider this in your interpretation. Potentially this higher variation among communities can be discussed as well? Concerning the title: currently sediment microbial communities are reffered to as "rhizosphere", but in the manuscript they are generally referred to as sediment. The latter is more correct in my opinion, as no effort was taken to necesserily sample those associated with roots. Concerning language, in quite some instances an additional round of proofreading would be good. Currently there are many small type-o's and awkwardly structured sentences. I put some examples below under comments and suggestions. Concluding, after incorporating these suggestions I think the MS would make a nice addition to the literature and can serve as a starting point to look deeper into the marine angiosperm microbiome.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Specific comments and suggestions L64: here it claimed that because there are 64 seagrass species this makes them an interesting evolutionary study subject. Why is that? Because the low number makes it more tractable, because one could achieve full coverage? L107: It is clear that the authors consider bacteria to constitute the microbiome (as opposed to also including archeae, fungi, protists). This is fine, but it would be good to state that here clearly and acknowledge there are other taxa that closely interact with plants. L131: please rephrase, "simultaneously when" into e.g. "microbiome and samples and environmental data were collected simultaneously". L133: YSI meter; manufacturer? L140: TIC=TOC L143: how were leaves and roots handled during DNA isolation? Were they just put in the tube fresh from the freezer (as the writing suggests) or first e.g. ground using liquid N? Need some more info here. L182: Previously it is mentioned that the sample with the lowest read number apart from the control had about 23,000 reads. Were so many lost subsequently that rarefying to approx. 4000 is necessary? L273: " However, leaf and root microbial communities do not differ significantly based on sampling location, possibly indicating that these plant tissue associated communities are more stable or are more advantageous for the host plant than the sediment communities." – why should the observation that leaf and root associated communities don't vary according to location indicate that they are advantageous, or that they are more advantageous than sediment communities? L278: "which would be scale" ????? L295: "epiphyte" here refers to the fact that they are found on shoots/roots, right? That makes it redundant, and potentially confusing given that it implies an independent denomination of the taxa. L398: "Unsurprisingly, eelgrass shoot density was significant between locations (ANOVA, p < 0.05)" – this should be "significantly different". See for more instances in the following sentences. L416: " The significance of the Carbon:Nitrogen ratio may be indicative of a change in ecosystem nutrient cycling at the bed edge and the importance of nitrogen to the system as Carbon (TIC and TOC) alone was not correlated with the sediment communities." – but I presume neither was nitrogen? Here follows a paragraph on the importance of certain microbes for plant nitrogen nutrition, which is interesting, but only very passingly relates to the observed significant relationship of C:N ratio with microbial community turnover. L435: what's a "detritus rate"? L465: "but distance from edge" – something is missing here. References: Please double check references. I can see that e.g. for Aleklett et al. The first and family names of some authors have been inverted (e.g. Noah F, Miranda H =Fierer and Hart). refs cited above Warton DI, Wright ST, Wang Y. 2012. Distance-based multivariate analyses confound location and dispersion effects. Methods in Ecology and Evolution 3: 89–101. Cite this review as
Verbruggen E ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Microbial communities in sediment from Zostera marina patches, but not the Z. marina leaf or root microbiomes, vary in relation to distance from patch edge (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3246v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 6, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The authors analyzed the Zostera microbiome by means of 16S rRNA sequencing (Myseq). The aim of the study was to determine the epiphytic and rhizospheric microbial community composition. Differences were disclosed after comprehensive statistical analyzes and related to possible ecologic roles played by Zostera microbes. Overall, it is an excellent study, however it lacks a reference/discussion to previous relevant work on seawaeed (e.g. in Delisea). Eg PMID 22775757, 23157386, 22985125, 25675000.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
ok, but i did not find 16S analyzes of the surrounding seawater of at least use of previously obtained/published 16S profiles from water column.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
.
Comments for the author
. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Microbial communities in sediment from Zostera marina patches, but not the Z. marina leaf or root microbiomes, vary in relation to distance from patch edge (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3246v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 4, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
