Review History for Barriers to the use of personal health records by patients: a structured review [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Barriers to the use of personal health records by patients: a structured review To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 28th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 18th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on March 23rd, 2017 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 3rd, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Bob Patton
·
Apr 3, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your submission, we have now accepted your article for publication
label_author_1
Robert Robinson ·
Mar 26, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This paper is well written and referenced. It discusses a highly relevant topic for healthcare and explores the reported barriers to the adoption of a technology thought to be central to a patient centered healthcare delivery system. 1. Basic Reporting Clear and unambiguous, professional English used throughout. Yes Literature references, sufficient field background/context provided. Yes Professional article structure, figs, tables. Raw data shared. Yes. Revised tables are excellent. Figures should be relevant to the content of the article, of sufficient resolution, Yes Self-contained with relevant results to hypotheses. Yes
Experimental design
label_ed_1
2. Experimental design Original primary research within Aims and Scope of the journal. Yes The submission should clearly define the research question, which must be relevant and meaningful. The knowledge gap being investigated should be identified, and statements should be made as to how the study contributes to filling that gap. Yes Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical & ethical standard. Yes. The authors changes represent significant improvements to the article that clarify areas identified previously. The included data on provider perceptions of barriers is useful because the attitude of providers to the PHR is likely to be an important factor driving end user acceptance. Methods described with sufficient detail & information to replicate. Yes
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
3. Validity of the Findings Impact and novelty not assessed. Negative/inconclusive results accepted. Meaningful replication encouraged where rationale & benefit to literature is clearly stated. Yes Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled. Yes Conclusion are well stated, linked to original research question & limited to supporting results. Yes
Cite this review as
Robinson R ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Barriers to the use of personal health records by patients: a structured review (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3268v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 23, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Bob Patton
·
Nov 18, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Thank you for your submission. The reviewers note that there are several areas that should be addressed. Particular attention should be paid to the comments relating to experimental design and the validity of your findings.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 16, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
1) The authors should double check their References list for completeness. For example, the Archer, 2011 reference is not included.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1) The eligibility criteria for the literature review was very broad and goes beyond PHR use to include Internet use generally. While PHR use and Internet use are obviously linked, this linkage and the associated barriers are intuitive (e.g. no computer access limits PHR use; no Internet access limits PHR use). The authors may be better served by focusing on more specific barriers for PHR use. 2) As I understand the methodology for literature reviews, reviews themselves should not be included, and instead, the individual studies that compose the review should be extracted and included. This is to avoid the potential for duplication of findings. While the authors did note that “Literature reviews were removed if they included only publications which had already been retrieved for this review…” this does not completely eliminate concerns with duplication of findings. 3) The authors should discuss the limitations of including literature with provider perceptions of patient barriers, considering that providers are not the primary end users of these tools (although they certainly play an important role in supporting its use). 4) The authors briefly discuss the limitations of including potential users, but should explicate this limitation more clearly (i.e. potential use or perceived projected use is not necessarily a good indicator of future use).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
1) It is not clear to me how the category barrier of “health literacy” could include statements such as “lack of motivation” which may have nothing to do with issues of health literacy and could have more to do with integration of these types of tools into a daily routine or even usability issues. Similarly, lack of added value sounds more like a functionality issue than a health literacy issue. 2) Why is education not flagged as a barrier likely to be associated with socioeconomic disadvantage? 3) Under 3.7.3 Race and ethnicity – the authors need to provide information about which races/ethnicities were less likely to adopt a PHR. 4) In the discussion of limitations, the authors note that a limitation was studies that focused on those already using technology may underestimate the prevalence and significance of barriers. While this is certainly true, the authors should also consider that barriers encountered by those who are already using technology may be uncovering particularly large issues, as some of those barriers identified may have been unexpected in this patient population.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
1) In Table 2, there are no totals provided for “Health related factors” and nothing filled out at all for “PHR factors” and “Attitudinal factors”. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Barriers to the use of personal health records by patients: a structured review (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3268v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Robert Robinson ·
Nov 18, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The subject is interesting and relevant to modern medicine Basic reporting is good Figures are relevant and clear Appropriate data is made available Sections should have the numerical prefixes removed - "Eligibility criteria" instead of "2.1 Eligibility criteria" Comments on tables - Table 1 - UCD not defined for Chrischilles 2014 article Close parentheses for Hilton (2012) Online survey (within supported PHR use AND Logue (2012) Survey questionnaire) HIE not defined for Patel (2012) Consider condensing or splitting the table so it is no larger than page sized - perhaps a table for each major study type. ----------------------- Table 2 is poorly designed and should be reformatted. Consider a table for each factor type - capability, health related factors with a row for each of the items currently in the columns. Instead of item 1.1 use "PHR readiness - use of technology" and compare that method to the factor types Something like - Useability Cost PHR readiness - use of technology PHR readiness - usage intentions. PHR readiness - participation in design of PHRs,
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Experimental design is appropriate and adheres to the PRISMA format The research question is appropriately selected and addressed by the study
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data is sound and the conclusions drawn from the data are appropriate.
Cite this review as
Robinson R ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Barriers to the use of personal health records by patients: a structured review (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3268v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 28, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
