Review History for Preservation media, durations and cell concentrations of short-term storage affect key features of human adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells for therapeutic application [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Preservation media, durations and cell concentrations of short-term storage affect key features of human adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells for therapeutic application To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 4th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 27th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on April 3rd, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 11th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mario Alberto Flores-Valdez
·
Apr 11, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr Chen, I am glad to let you know that your revised version is suitable for acceptance in PeerJ. I appreciate your taking into account the suggestions provided by our reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 3, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mario Alberto Flores-Valdez
·
Jan 27, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear author, After reviewing your work and the commentaries provided by reviewers, particularly 1 and 3, I consider there is an excellent opportunity for you to improve your manuscript by attending these questions and suggestions, therefore I encourage you to resubmit your work after responding to these points.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 18, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
English writing needs to be improved. There are many errors, some which make sentences and ideas confuse. Context provided but previous work by others is not describe with sufficient detail to clearly detect the contribution of the present study.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design can be considered simple and logical reasoning for each experiment performed, but not sufficient complete to identify those specific factors that increase or decrease viability and differentiation potential major aspects to make MSC useful for therapeutic applications. This is a technical report, therefore new knowledge is poorly provided. Methods are described in detail but in particular medium called "glucose" is not defined.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Conclusions of the study are well established but the meaning of some determinations are not correctly defined. In particular trypan blue staining is used as a measure of viability, because dying cells are not able to exclude the dye. This property is an indication of cell death but not necessarily by apoptosis. Discrepancy between trypan blue staining and Anexin binding, a good indicator of cells dying by apoptosis, is probably due that in some storage conditions cells are dying by mechanism different than apoptosis. It is apparent that some times authors used necrosis to refer to apoptosis. The quality of the work will largely increase if authors identify precisely the cell biological phenomenon affected by storage conditions. This is a superficial study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Significant improvement in English writing is required. Authors should define the death processes involved such that determinations by trypan blue and anexin binding make sense. "Glucose" medium needs to be defined. A closer comparisons with similar studies, including those based in cryioreservation will increase the relevance of the conclusions. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Preservation media, durations and cell concentrations of short-term storage affect key features of human adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells for therapeutic application (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3301v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper was conducted to optimize types of preservation, time to storage and ADSC concentration to be used in cell therapy. In introduction, It makes a necessary literature review with a solid theoretical foundation about the current context of the subject. It got its purpose and it make emphasizes the importance of this study in the therapeutic application with cellular viability and clinically acceptable functions. Therefore, It represents a relevant contribution and usefull scientific information to be published in this journal. The structure is adequate and the text has been described with clarity. The purpose were well defined, as well as, a detailed description of the methods used. It makes the possibility to this study to be reproduced as well. The results are consistent, statistically substantiated, discussed and interpreted in a relevant way, and we believed they can impact on future researches. The illustrations are self-explanatory and they present good quality. The figures and tables relevants. The explanation of figures and references are in accordance with the author guidelines. The conclusions highlight relevant staitments and they are in accordance with the objectives and methods proposed in the research. This paper has important contribution to the scientific comunity. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Preservation media, durations and cell concentrations of short-term storage affect key features of human adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells for therapeutic application (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3301v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Jan 25, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The main objective of using a preservation medium during freezing process, is because in the clinical application it is logistically complicated to extract, process and use in a single day. For that reason it would consider as objective to find a product that allows the freezing and effective preservation for more than 24 hours. The structure of the submitted article is acceptable.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research question is well defined, the methods are described with sufficient detail, and with enough information to be reproducible.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data shown are sufficiently robust, the statistical method employed is correct. There is a degree of novelty and it could be of interest to a specific niche.
Comments for the author
In this paper the conclusions are limited to the description of the results, it is opportune to include a deeper analysis of these. The conclusions should be appropriately stated. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Preservation media, durations and cell concentrations of short-term storage affect key features of human adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells for therapeutic application (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3301v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 4, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
