Review History for A novel genus and cryptic species harboured within the monotypic freshwater crayfish genus Tenuibranchiurus Riek, 1951 (Decapoda: Parastacidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A novel genus and cryptic species harboured within the monotypic freshwater crayfish genus Tenuibranchiurus Riek, 1951 (Decapoda: Parastacidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 20th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 15th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on April 5th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 13th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Keith Crandall
·
Apr 13, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your careful revision of your manuscript. You've done a great job of incorporating the feedback from the previous round of reviews. I feel your paper is now, therefore, ready for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 5, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Keith Crandall
·
Feb 15, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have now received three thorough reviews of your paper in addition to reading it over myself. I am happy to report we all think this an interesting and well-done study. The sampling is impressive, the analyses well done, and the study targets a much needed area of effort for crayfish biodiversity and phylogenetic work. Note there are, however, a number of issues that need to be dealt with before acceptance. The central issue, in my view, is that raised by reviewer 1 with respect to a more stringent description/articulation of what you mean by 'species delimitation' as this is the core focus of your paper. I have no doubt you can efficiently deal with this and the other issues raised by reviewers and I look forward to your revised draft. Please also note reviewer 2 has an annotated manuscript that you will need to download to see the full extent of those suggestions. Good luck with your revision.
label_author_1
David Stern ·
Feb 7, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Dawkins et al. take a molecular phylogenetic approach to describe the genetic diversity within Tenuibranchiurus and find evidence for multiple divergent lineages and potentially two independent genera. The manuscript is very nicely written and the background information and literature cited is appropriate. The methods and analyses are sound and the authors take care not to overstate the implications of their results. However the authors should consider describing the species identified as something like ‘potential’ or ‘putative’ species rather than ‘species’ in the Discussion and Conclusions sections, until other lines of evidence corroborate.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This study extends the author’s findings in Dawkins et al. 2010 by including additional sampling of localities and genes as well as several tests of lineage delimitation. It is unclear to me if the data from Dawkins et al. 2010 were included in this analysis. The authors should consider clarifying the terms and approaches for ‘species delimitation’ and ‘testing of lineages’ in the Methods section. It seems ‘species delimitation’ is being used here to mean lineage assignment or identification of genetic structure and ‘testing of lineages’ to mean ‘species delimitation’ in the sense of testing the hypotheses that these lineages are independent, genetically distinct, etc. The authors could consider the terms ‘discovery’ and ‘validation’ as in Carstens et al. (Molecular Ecology (2013) 22, 4369–4383). Also, given the array of molecular species delimitation methods available (and discussed in the Introduction) that could be applied under the General Lineage Concept, perhaps the authors should provide practical or theoretical justification for choosing these two.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Additional suggestions: Line 61 – ‘Ne’ could be changed to ‘effective population size’ Line 81 - Perhaps this could be clarified that this is ‘smallest’ is in terms of physical size, since the rest of the paragraph is about clade size Line 110 – Should these primers sequences be made available here? Line 141- I am wondering if the use of the term ‘combined gene tree’ invokes the idea of summarizing individual gene trees in some way to estimate a ‘species tree’. Perhaps a more appropriate term would be something like ‘concatenated alignment phylogeny.’ In that sense, Line 147 could be changed to ‘gene alignments were contatenated.’ Line 155 – Bootstrapping automatically halted at what point? How many bootstrap replicates were generated? What substitution models were used in the Bayesian analysis? Line 163 – Was the posterior summarized as an MCC or consensus tree? Or were clade frequencies mapped onto the ML tree? Line 164 – Were both ML and Bayesian trees used for downstream analysis/ lineage assignment? Line 172- Table S2 can be referenced here Line 174 – Missing the word ‘variation’ in ‘Phi-SC measures among’ Line 181 – Is there a function to perform this analysis in Arlequin? What criteria were used to make the cutoff? Line 191 – The authors could consider including the individual gene trees as Supplementary Figures, and in either case they could describe how those gene trees were estimated. Line 212 – Were these 1000 bootstrap replicates? Line 214 - It could be made clear that this was performed for 16S and COI separately Line 238 - Is the cutoff of 4 here following recommendations from another paper? Line 387- I assume ‘both gene fragments’ here mean 16S and COI, but that should be made clear Lines 389-390- Table 2 can be referenced here Line 435- ‘ …addition genus…’ should read ‘additional’ Figure 2 – Is this the maximum-likelihood phylogeny or a consensus tree from the Bayesian analysis? Cite this review as
Stern DB ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "A novel genus and cryptic species harboured within the monotypic freshwater crayfish genus Tenuibranchiurus Riek, 1951 (Decapoda: Parastacidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3310v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Felipe Bezerra Ribeiro ·
Feb 13, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Discussion and Conclusion should be improved because they are a little bit repetitive.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper present an important contribution to the crayfish taxonomy, since the authors proposed the establishment of a novel genus with two new species and five new species for the genus Tenuibranchiurus. Methods are clear and the data analysis was well employed with robust and reliable results. I pointed some modifications in the PDF file and I highly encourage the publication of this paper after the small modifications. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Bezerra Ribeiro F ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "A novel genus and cryptic species harboured within the monotypic freshwater crayfish genus Tenuibranchiurus Riek, 1951 (Decapoda: Parastacidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3310v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Susan Lawler ·
Feb 14, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This article is well written, comprehensively referenced with good structure and well designed tables and figures. The raw data is included and the methods, which are complex, are detailed and carefully explained.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
This research is an important contribution to the phylogeny and taxonomy of freshwater crayfish. A monotypic genus has been carefully sampled, and five gene regions were analysed to identify a total of two genera containing eight species in this cryptic species complex. The methods were rigorous and well explained, showing all possible hypotheses (in Table S2) and using a variety of analytical approaches (lineage testing, barcoding gap identification and K/<U+03B8>) that converge on the eventual solution which is robust and convincing.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The findings appear valid and I commend the authors on the collection of 127 burrowing crayfish, which is not an easy task. The subsequent analysis, both genetic and statistical is comprehensive and thoroughly convincing. A major revision of the genus is sure to follow and I look forward to further publications on this unique and now even more interesting taxa.
Comments for the author
Minor typos and a suggestion: Line 103 : issued instead of issue? Line 160: sentence doesn't flow, seems to be missing a right handed parenthesis = ) Figure 1: given the emphasis on the separation of QLD and NSW samples, it may be helpful to add the state boundary to the map, especially for the international audience. This is just a suggestion as it is possible to figure out where it is from the lineage information. Cite this review as
Lawler S ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "A novel genus and cryptic species harboured within the monotypic freshwater crayfish genus Tenuibranchiurus Riek, 1951 (Decapoda: Parastacidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3310v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 20, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
