Review History for Lygistorrhinidae (Diptera: Bibionomorpha: Sciaroidea) in early Eocene Cambay amber [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Lygistorrhinidae (Diptera: Bibionomorpha: Sciaroidea) in early Eocene Cambay amber To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 18th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 30th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on April 12th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 13th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Kenneth De Baets
·
Apr 13, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing our final suggestions. The requirements for describing new species are met.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 12, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Kenneth De Baets
·
Jan 30, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As demonstrated by the assessments by the reviewers and myself, the manuscript is in a good state. There are, however, still some minor points I would like you to address, which could make the manuscript even better: •Phylogeny: I agree with reviewer 1 that it might be useful to add the genus to the recent phylogeny by Blagoderov et al. 2009 (considering most characters have already been coded, it should not take that much additional effort to add the additional genus and test it placement in the tree). Reviewer three also pointed out similarities (R-M fusion) to some genera of Keroplatidae, which might be worth discussing. •Listed amber age: As far as I am aware, ages of many amber deposits are not entirely uncontroversial (Dominican amber has by some been dated up to 40 Ma, although it is now mostly accepted that it was deposited between 20 – 15 Ma). I would therefore be useful to have a graph illustrating the ages of all discussed ambers as these are directly relevant for your interpretations (climate and biogeography). It would be at least necessary to cite the works which list the ages used in the text (Oise Amber, Baltic Amber, etc.) and what those ages are based on. In addition to the (additional) points raised by the reviewers, please also address the following points: Line 39: it might be good to point that Seguyola is derived in this context for completeness sake Line 58-60: please provide reference for the ages you list for these amber deposits. It think the Oise Amber is not that precisely dated, so add “ca.”. As you give absolute age for the rest of the deposits, it would be useful to give an absolute age range for the Baltic amber. Line 78: Unclear, what you mean with “diverse in past and present ecosystems than is commonly known”. How can these fossils tell you anything about the present? Do you mean that “these flies might have much more abundant in past ecosystems than today”. Line 89-91: One can also wonder if the really are off the same age; please be more specific about this issue. Line 140: I find it a bit confusing to talk about other species in the Diagnosis, but maybe this is more common in insects. In mollusks, one would typically compare taxa in the Discussion. Line 406-408: Are there no other (additional) references for the reconstration as a tropical rain forest. Line 418-419: It might be useful to add the new genus in the phylogeny provided by Blagoderov et al. (2009). Line 434: It is a bit weird to speak about sister species if you did not actually test this.
label_author_1
Andre Nel ·
Jan 22, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
clear and unambiguous references quite ok structure quite good relevant results and well supported conclusions a very good paper, worth being published in the state
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comments, results robust maybe, a point could improve the paper, that is including the new genus in the available phylogeny but this is only optional
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
a very good paper, without errors maybe, a point could improve the paper, that is including the new genus in the available phylogeny but this is only optional Cite this review as
Nel A ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Lygistorrhinidae (Diptera: Bibionomorpha: Sciaroidea) in early Eocene Cambay amber (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3313v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 28, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Is an excellent manuscript with very adequate descriptions and illustrations that contribute significantly to the knowledge of the family Lygistorrhinidae. I add some comments directly to the text. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Lygistorrhinidae (Diptera: Bibionomorpha: Sciaroidea) in early Eocene Cambay amber (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3313v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Jan Sevcik ·
Jan 29, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
It is a well written manuscript by the experienced authors. I have not found any errors, except in the References where are several typos in the names of the journals (e.g. in Hennig 1966, Matile 1979, Matile 1990b, Matile 1996). All the literature is relevant and properly cited. The figures are of high quality, with appropriate legends.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The authors followed standard procedures of systematic paleoentomology. The fossil specimens are preserved in publicly accessible collections. My only concern is the description of new taxa based just on females in the groups like Sciaroidea where male terminalia provide important diagnostic and phylogenetic characters. In extant species, it is usually better to leave the species unnamed, as was done e.g. by Matile (1990a) for Lygistorrhina from Madagascar. Possibly in the case of fossils, such a practice can be tolerated, considering the rarity of well-preserved specimens and low probability that a closely related species from the same genus will be found in the future.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The new taxa appear to be valid and they are well supported by their diagnostic characters. The results are properly discussed and most of the new findings are shown to be of high phylogenetic and zoogeographical significance.
Comments for the author
Lygistorrhinids belong to the least known groups of fungus gnats (Sciaroidea), being one of the few extant families of Diptera where immature stages are completely unknown and where the phylogenetic position is still more or less obscure. Although beyond the scope of this manuscript, it would be interesting to see the authors’ opinion about the phylogenetic position of this peculiar family within Sciaroidea, with respect to fossil taxa. The older the fossils of Lygistorrhinidae are, the more difficult is their delimitation against the other Sciaroidea, especially regarding the family Pleciomimidae (= Antefungivoridae) and the unplaced (incertae sedis) genera of Sciaroidea. Some of the genera from the Cretaceous ambers (see Blagoderov & Grimaldi 2004), referred to as belonging to Lygistorrhinidae, have apparently little in common with recent lygistorrhinids and could be well placed in the family Mycetophilidae or possibly to other groups. The new genus Indorrhina deserves special attention as it retains the stem of M-fork and its probable fusion with R-stem (as far as this can be seen on the holotype). This feature separates it from both Palaeognoriste and Parisognoriste and should perhaps be more discussed in the Comments paragraph of the description (page 14 of the reviewing PDF). The possible R-M fusion would indicate its relationship to some genera of Keroplatidae, especially to Microkeroplatus, Chetoneura and Pseudochetoneura. Cite this review as
Sevcik J ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Lygistorrhinidae (Diptera: Bibionomorpha: Sciaroidea) in early Eocene Cambay amber (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3313v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 18, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
