Review History for A retrospective analysis of postoperative hypokalemia in pituitary adenomas after transsphenoidal surgery [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A retrospective analysis of postoperative hypokalemia in pituitary adenomas after transsphenoidal surgery To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 9th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 5th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on April 19th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 20th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Maria Cristina Albertini
·
Apr 20, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors of the paper completed the revision appropriately and improved the quality of the paper.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 19, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Maria Cristina Albertini
·
Mar 5, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The authors tried to describe the etiopathological mechanism of the ACTH-pituitary adenoma with postoperative hypokalemia. The authors have to specify the ACTH and non-ACTH pituitary adenomas groups of patients in material and methods. In the same section, some techniques are missing related to: histopathological examination; biochemical evaluations and hypokalemia analysis. I agree with the authors when they say that there are 2 limitations in this study (a small sample size and the origin of the population). The authors should better specify that the etiopathological mechanism described is an hypothesis with poor supporting data, but it is a beginning for further studies.
label_author_1
Marco Rocchi ·
Feb 12, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I have reviewed this paper from a statistical and methodological standopint. No comment about: English, literature, article structure
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Good experimental design; good use of statistical methods. I only suggest the following minimal corrections: 1. line 112: the sentence should be modified in: "for continuous data with non-normal distribution" 2. line 113: the sentence should be modified in: "...exact test, as appropriate" 3. figure 1: the statistical test used to analyze data should be reported in figure legend (not only into the statistical analysis section) No other comments about the experimental design
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Authors fill a gap in scientific literature.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The paper is well-written and methodologically well-designed. I only suggest minimal correction reported above. Cite this review as
Rocchi M ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "A retrospective analysis of postoperative hypokalemia in pituitary adenomas after transsphenoidal surgery (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3337v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Tables and figures need to be improved.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question needs to be re-defined. See my general comments to authors
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Causal assertions are not justified in restrospective studies. Please revise the whole text in agreement with the study design. See my general comments to authors
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript presents the results of a retrospective study including 181 pituitary adenomas which was aimed to investigate i) patient’s and pituitary adenoma’s characteristics which are associated with postoperative hypokalemia and ii) the difference of serum potassium levels between ACTH and non-ACTH pituitary adenomas. The manuscript is generally well-written, using clear and unambiguous English language, raw data are supplied and well-detailed, data is robust and statistically sound. However, in my opinion the research question needs to be completely re-defined because it appears too ambitious related to the retrospective study design, which is used. In fact, the authors in the abstract and the whole text affirm their paper is aimed to investigate the etiopathology of postoperative hypokalemia, but such a scope can be addressed only through prospective studies. Also their conclusion that “ACTH-pituitary adenomas may be an independent factor causing postoperative hypokalemia…” is inappropriate for retrospective studies, which are only prone to assess associations but not causal relations. In the following, some suggestions to improve the manuscript: Abstract Rewrite Background and Conclusions as suggested in my general comments. lines 23-25: it is not clear what the authors mean with “...dependent variables which cause postoperative hypokalemia…” and “independent factor” used for ACTH-pituitary adenoma. Material and Methods: Preoperative evaluation lines 82-83: clarify and add references Material and Methods: Statistical analysis lines 111-112: It doesn’t seem to me that the authors have used continuous variables apart from serum potassium levels. In fact, age, LoS, tumor size have been categorized. Therefore, these lines concerning statistical tests not used can be deleted. line 113: the authors should include the statistical test for sphericity and motivate the choice of the Greenhouse–Geisser test line 117: the authors should explain if they used the stepwise selection method to automatically choose the variables Results line 129: the authors should include data for mixed pituitary adenomas in Table 1 line 134: what is the dependent variable? Clarify lines 136,138: the acronym LOS can be deleted because not used anywhere line 143-144: it is incorrect to use the term incidence for retrospective studies. The authors should write “to explore statistical association between demographic and clinical characteristics and postoperative hypokalemia” lines 149-151: to move this sentence at the line 134. In fact, it is better for sake of clarity to present information about pituitary adenoma and postoperative hypokalemia first of all lines 168: the interaction between postoperative hypokalemia and time is not statistically significant (p=0.321) (See Table 1) Discussions Rewrite this section as suggested in my general comments, avoiding causal assertions. The authors should discuss their finding also considering that potassium levels were significantly different between ACTH and non-ACTH only till the postoperative day 1, but that such a difference disappears from the 2nd postoperative day on. lines 182-184: do not generalize relations observed only at univariate statistical analysis, but not confirmed at multivariate analysis Table 1 Get the title more informative as, for example, “Postoperative hypokalemia by demographic and clinical characteristics: Univariate analysis” Among the Variables, insert a variable “Type” with the following categories: ACTH vs non-ACTH, the latter sub-classified as PRL, GH, FSH, TSH, mixed. Table 2 Get the title more informative as, for example, “Postoperative hypokalemia by demographic and clinical characteristics: Multivariate analysis” Replace the word “Sum” with “Total”; explain the meaning of crossover effect in the note Figure the quality can be improved Typos: lines 234, 250 Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "A retrospective analysis of postoperative hypokalemia in pituitary adenomas after transsphenoidal surgery (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3337v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 9, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
