Review History for Comparison of automated nucleic acid extraction methods for the detection of cytomegalovirus DNA in fluids and tissues [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Comparison of automated nucleic acid extraction methods for the detection of cytomegalovirus DNA in fluids and tissues To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 27th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 24th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on March 11th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 16th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Siouxsie Wiles
·
Mar 16, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank for your timely response to the reviewers comments and we look forward to seeing your article published in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 11, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Siouxsie Wiles
·
Jan 24, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewer's have suggested a number of minor clarifications which I agree need to be undertaken. In addition, please expand on the methodology undertaken in regard to the statistical testing. Was the data tested normally distributed as required for a t-test? How was normality calculated?
label_author_1
Nicolas Leveque ·
Jan 23, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Waggoner & Pinsky present here a comparison of two automated nucleic acid extraction methods for the detection of Cytomegalovirus DNA in body fluids and tissues. This topic is interesting because, as the authors explain, the methods of extraction and detection/quantitation of CMV have been developed mainly for plasma or whole blood. Most laboratories (including ours!) then apply these methods to other types of samples, which may contain CMV, after an adapted pre-treatment phase. I found the paper very clear and well written, the results are convincing enough of the analytical validity of the Pathogen Complex 400 extraction protocol and its use for CMV detection in BAL, tissue samples and urines. I have, however, some comments and some questions: - Introduction, line 22: It could be good to mention that whole blood is also increasingly used for CMV viral load monitoring in transplant recipients and is the gold standard in many countries. - Introduction, line 40: For which types of samples the Pathogen complex 400 protocol was originally designed? - Introduction, line 42: The authors should precise here that the reference method is made of the combination of both the MagNA Pure LC extraction and the CACM assay. - Materials and Methods, line 46: Is that a prospective or a retrospective study ? Was the reference method (MagNA pure extraction + CACM) performed at the same time as the QIAsymphony + Artus analysis? This point is not clear and should be clarified. Similarly, if the QIAsymphony + Artus analysis was conducted in a retrospective way, the mode of storage of samples must be specified. - Materials and Methods, line 51: the type of “Tissue” must be specified even if this is likely only colonic biopsies. - Materials and Methods, line 56: Please, give the definition of the AD-169. - Results and Discussion, lines 107-108: Sequencing of discordant samples between the reference method and QIAsymphony + Artus analysis could help to decide between true- or false-positive results. - Results and Discussion, lines 166-174: The other advantages of using PCR for neonatal urinary diagnosis of congenital CMV infection are also the use of a smaller volume of sample than for culture and, due to its better sensitivity, the requirement of only one sample instead of three samples three consecutive days (those who work with newborns know the difficulty in collecting the urine in these patients). - Results and Discussion, lines 174-175: I suggest to discuss a little bit more the 3 false-negative results by the Cell-free 1000 protocol. Poorer elimination of PCR inhibitors? Poorer DNA extraction than Pathogen complex 400 protocol?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No other comments (see above).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No other comments (see above).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No other comments (see above). Cite this review as
Leveque N ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Comparison of automated nucleic acid extraction methods for the detection of cytomegalovirus DNA in fluids and tissues (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.334v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
david navarro ·
Jan 10, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Waggoner and Pinsky evaluated the artus CMV PCR assay coupled to two different automated extraction systems for the quantitation of CMV DNA in BAL, tissue specimens and urines. The data presented appear to support the authors’s conclusions. I have several comments: 1. Introduction, line 25. Definitive diagnosis require in most clinical situations the demonstration of viral CPE by IHC. Please add it. 2. Introduction, line 27. ….for entities such as CMV pneumonitis…in what patients? 3. Data on the procedence of specimens (i.e. clinical condition of patients, number of samples /patients/type of tissues….) used in this study should be provided. 4. Line 56: “Negative samples were spiked with AD169….” Was this an infected-cell culture lysate, supernatant, purified virions…? 5. Line 58: “ 10-fold dilutions were prepared to a final concentration of 6.6. to 2.6 log10/mL..” What PCR was used for CMV AD169 DNA quantitation? 6. The WHO standard should have been used for comparisons. Please discuss this issue in the corresponding section. 7. From a formal stand point it is certainly inappropriate to take as a reference method an assay which is clearly less sensitive than the test assay. Please discuss this issue. 8. Data on the characteristics of the PCR assays used in this study (LOD, LOQ, dynamic linear range….) should be included in the revised version of the manuscript. 9. Enumerate the major differences between the two extraction procedures employed Cite this review as
navarro d ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Comparison of automated nucleic acid extraction methods for the detection of cytomegalovirus DNA in fluids and tissues (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.334v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 27, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
