Review History for The first reported ceratopsid dinosaur from eastern North America (Owl Creek Formation, Upper Cretaceous, Mississippi, USA) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The first reported ceratopsid dinosaur from eastern North America (Owl Creek Formation, Upper Cretaceous, Mississippi, USA) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 25th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 6th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on April 21st, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 21st, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Hans-Dieter Sues
·
Apr 21, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised manuscript is acceptable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 21, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Hans-Dieter Sues
·
Mar 6, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This manuscript requires only very minor changes before the Editor can recommend it for acceptance for publication.
label_author_1
Alexander Averianov ·
Feb 5, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
were no experiments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
see the next item.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The paper describes a single ceratpsid tooth, the first record of Ceratopsidae from the eastern North America (Appalachia). The morphology of the tooth, which is well preserved, notable a double root and a prominent, blade-like carina, leaves no doubts that it belongs to a ceratopsid. The authors discuss thoroughly the phylogenetic distribution of the diagnostic characters of the tooth from Mississippi. Although geologic context of the finding is complicating, I agree with authors that reworking from older strata is unlikely due to the state of preservation of the fossil. This is one of the rare opportunity to test the hypothesis that faunal differences between Laramidia and Appalachia were reduced when the two land masses were reunited following the retreat of the interior seaway during the late Maastrichtian. I agree that dispersal of a ceratopsid from Laramida to Appalachia is most likely explanation of this discovery. Appalachia may had some connections with Europe during the Late Cretaceous, as indicated by discovery of a possible zhelestid mammal (Emry et al., 1981), and, possibly, by a multituberculate (Hainina was cited for the latest Campanian Marshalltown Formation of New Jersey, but this material was not described and identification was not confirmed). But ceratopsids currently not known in the Late Cretaceous of Europe. The paper is well organized and provides a wealth of new data. I recommend it for publication in PeerJ as it is. More specific comments: Title: “The first reported ceratopsid dinosaur from eastern North America (Owl Creek Formation, Late Cretaceous, Mississippi, USA).” Late Cretaceous is a time when ceratopsid lived, but the formation should be placed in the Upper Cretaceous. Abstract: “Ceratopsids (“horned dinosaurs”) are known from numerous specimens in western North America and Asia […]” One may read this as were numerous specimens of ceratopsids also in Asia, but they were few. Emry R.J., Archibald J.D. and Smith C.C. 1981. A mammalian molar from the Late Cretaceous of northern Mississippi. Journal of Paleontology 55: 953-956. Cite this review as
Averianov A ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "The first reported ceratopsid dinosaur from eastern North America (Owl Creek Formation, Upper Cretaceous, Mississippi, USA) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3342v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Peter Dodson ·
Feb 27, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is an extremely satisfying and satisfactory report. I found it completely convincing, The tooth is precisely what it is claimed to be. It is referred to the correct taxonomic level; taxonomic restrain is observed so that there is no question of applying a binomial to the fossil. The stratigraphic context is expertly described. Likewise the anatomical description is superb. Finally, the biogeographic conclusions are factually based. This MS is so clean that my itchy editorial fingers have been unable to place a single red mark on the text. I congratulate the authors. Literature Cited excellent!
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Entirely satisfactory in design and execution.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The conclusions are completely reasonble and follow directly from the data presented.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I will mention just three matters. One is that the find is certainly fortuitous, a veritable pearl in the chaff. Given that the fossil was found in a modern stream lag along with fossils of Pleistocene, Paleocene and Cretaceous age, I find it a bit of a reach to conclude the age of the ceratopsid tooth is “latest Maastrichtian.” This could be taken as meaning “the last 15 minutes of the Mesozoic” or something like that. I appreciate the reasons for thinking it may have come from near the top of the Owl Creek, but given the mixing it may not have as well. Perhaps the less-hyperbolic term “late Maastrichtian” might be advanced as a possibility. Still extremely interesting. The other thing that I found quite interesting is Fig. 5 detailing withdrawal of the Interior Seaway. We all know that the seaway drained away south to north, but I could not have specified the timing of this event. Do we have a sense of how long the draining took south to north? The fact of a potential southern dispersal corridor to Appalachia is really interesting – an eye-opener. Could you place the size measurements of the tooth in context? What are dimensions of a Triceratops tooth? Of Centrosaurus/Chasmosaurus tooth. My imopression is that the tooth is of a size consistent with the latter group rather than with Triceratops. A small point but perhaps worth mentioning. Great job! Cite this review as
Dodson P ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "The first reported ceratopsid dinosaur from eastern North America (Owl Creek Formation, Upper Cretaceous, Mississippi, USA) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3342v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Mar 6, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
No comment.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
This is a thorough description of a single ceratopsid tooth.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
As noted in a comment by Denver Fowler for the PeerJ PrePrint, it would be worth addressing the possibility that this tooth may represent a carcass that had floated from Laramidia. The tooth is identified as representing a ceratopsid; however, Figure 5 strongly suggests that this tooth more specifically represents a chasmosaurine ceratopsid. It may not be possible to distinguish the teeth of centrosaurines and chasmosaurines, but the stratigraphic and geographic distributions of taxa may offer insights which are explored here only in Figure 5 (though not specifically mentioned in the figure caption) but not in the body of the manuscript. This would be worth addressing or clarifying.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "The first reported ceratopsid dinosaur from eastern North America (Owl Creek Formation, Upper Cretaceous, Mississippi, USA) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3342v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 25, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
