Review History for Proceraea exoryxae sp. nov. (Annelida, Syllidae, Autolytinae), the first known polychaete miner tunneling into the tunic of an ascidian [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Proceraea exoryxae sp. nov. (Annelida, Syllidae, Autolytinae), the first known polychaete miner tunneling into the tunic of an ascidian To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 29th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 19th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 3rd, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 4th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Christopher Glasby
·
May 4, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Edwin, Thanks for the revised ms, and for responding to the suggestions of the reviewers. The changes made as a result of the reviewers suggestions have improved the quality of the ms. Can I suggest two more edits related to the new text, l. 357 'indistinguishable', and l 364, a rewording option ... 'is evidence that they are actually ....'. I look forward to seeing your ms published. Best, Chris
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 3, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Christopher Glasby
·
Apr 19, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Author, thanks for submitting your interesting ms to PeerJ. The reviewers have concurred that the ms is of high quality and requires only minor modification to be suitable for publication. However, interestingly, all three of us have picked on different things, which we consider most important, and with which I concur: Rev 1: that you add information on infestation rate in relation to 1. symbiotic specialisations, and 2. coastal management; Rev 2: that some consideration is given to the possibility that only one type of chaeta exists (the second being a damaged version of the first); and Editor: that some of the images be improved where possible, particularly Figure 3. Overall though, an interesting, well crafted ms. I look forward to your response and revised ms, All the best, Chris
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Patricia Alvarez-Campos ·
Apr 9, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is very clear, unambiguous. Professional english is also used. The authors give a proper introduction and background. The literature given is relevant and well referenced. All the figures and the table are also relevant, well labelled and described, and they help to understand the content of the paper
Experimental design
label_ed_1
everything described with enough detail, although I miss a comment about where was the material deposited (line 113 in the attached pdf). Some other suggestions are also included in the attached pdf.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The paper is very interesting and I have enjoyed a lot its reading. However, although the authors give several and detail explanations about the taxonomy of the new species, and the implications of the host-symbiont relationship, the paper lacks a discussion related to the fact that they only found syllids within a unique specimen of P. nigra. Given that the authors say that "the new partnership here reported may be a well-established relationship with a noticeable degree of specialisation" and also they suggest that this new association "may also be relevant for coastal management", I think it is important and necessary to explain that part.
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Alvarez-Campos P ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Proceraea exoryxae sp. nov. (Annelida, Syllidae, Autolytinae), the first known polychaete miner tunneling into the tunic of an ascidian (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3374v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Temir Britayev ·
Apr 14, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a very interesting, important and clearly written paper describing parasitic association between new species of syllid polychaete and its host ascidian for the first time. Introduction is well organized and provides enough background to demonstrate the novelty of the paper. The structure of the manuscript conforms to PeerJ standards. Figures are relevant, of a high quality, and well labelled and described. Literature is well referenced and relevant.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This original and primary paper is within the scope of the journal. Research questions are well defined, relevant and addressed to cover the gaps in knowledge on the rare phenomenon of parasitic relationships involving polychaetes. The methods employed are sufficient to obtain responses on questions arisen. They are relevant, described with sufficient details, and informative enough to replicate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Species description is very carefully and professionally done and includes not only morphology of adults, but reproductive stages as well. The authors demonstrated the mining activity of polychaetes in the ascidian tunic, which has a particular interest due to the very strong defensive characteristics attributed to the tunic, including the accumulation of vanadium and sulfuric acid and their metabolites. The manuscript contains also a brief overview of other organisms living in symbiotic associations with ascidians to underline that just a few of them are able to colonize structurally the tough and chemically protected tunic, and also an overview of all autolytinid polychaetes known as symbionts, which is particularly relevant in the general context of the manuscript.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I have no any special comments to the description except one. The second type of simple chaetae found by the authors in the some of the anterior segments of the worms (from 4 to 13) are very similar in shape to the shafts of compound chaetae of the same worm after lost of the distal blades. I suggest the authors have to explain why they consider them as a different type of chaetae. This explanation is especially relevant taking into account that simple chaetae are not characteristic to other Proceraea species, and seem to be required independently of the fact that the worms have another type of simple chaetae in the anterior-most chaetigers, with a clearly different and singular morphology. I am looking forward to see this in print after minor revision. Cite this review as
Britayev T ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Proceraea exoryxae sp. nov. (Annelida, Syllidae, Autolytinae), the first known polychaete miner tunneling into the tunic of an ascidian (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3374v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 29, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
