Review History for Quercetin reduces hydroxyurea induced cytotoxicity in immortalized mouse aortic endothelial cells [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Quercetin reduces hydroxyurea induced cytotoxicity in immortalized mouse aortic endothelial cells To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 22nd, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 27th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 4th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 4th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Maria Cristina Albertini
·
May 4, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All the revisions requested have been correctly performed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 4, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Maria Cristina Albertini
·
Apr 27, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I believe that addressing the reviewer comments will improve the quality of the paper.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 2, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
<U+F0FC>Literature references, sufficient field background/context provided: I added a reference in the Introduction . It is marked in red in the corrected attached file The reference is : L.Potenza, C.Calcabrini, R. De Bellis, U. Mancini, L. Cucchiarini, M.Dachà .Effect of quercetin on oxidative nuclear and mitochondrial DNA damage.BioFactors , 33: 33–4, 2008. <U+F0FC>Professional article structure, figs, tables: I’d preferred better legends to figures . They were copied from the section “Results”. For example authors can name figure 2: LDH release. Then they comment results. In the y axis of this figure I’d replace Absorbance with ”LDH release”
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The Experimental design is correct
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
<U+F0FC>Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled: the authors write in the Discussion and Conclusions: “The second finding that HU (100µmol), significantly increased the amount of LDH released in the inflammatory model, during a period of hypoxia and re-oxygenation, is novel since to our knowledge, there are no reports in the literature about this effect of low dose HU for treating SCD” Are the authors sure when they write “low dose HU (100µmol)? They work on 20.000 cells .Is really a low dose? In literature I found only reports on human were HU is introduced as mg/kg/day. When a drug is administered it is already studied on cellular and animal models. A cytotoxicity test is the first step to study a drug : it seems strange that this effect wasn’t already observed. May it depend on cell line selected? <U+F0FC>Speculation is welcome, but should be identified as such In my opinion there were too many speculations
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript reports the protective effect of quercetin (QCT) on Hydroxyurea (HU) induced cytotoxicity in immortalized mouse aortic endothelium cells. In this study the authors performed an in vitro model of inflamed vascular endothelium using Lipopolysaccarides (LPS). Combined treatment were made with HU, QCT or QCT+ HU and LDH level was analysed as marker of cellular damage. The authors found that HU (100 µM) significantly increased the amount of LDH release in the set up model and combination of QCT and HU led to baseline levels of inflammation indicating that QCT may completely prevent damage induced by HU treatment. The manuscript is well written, the experimental design is correct and results are clearly presented. This work is quite limited analysing only a damage marker but represents a starting point which can led to use quercetin as an adjunct treatment. Further investigations should be performed on the set up model to better evaluate the protective effect of QCT : ROS level, Inflammatory cytochines and adhesion molecules, SOD, GSH…….. Animal models will be requested in order to understand QCT bioavailability. However I think that it is fair to inform the scientific community about these two obtained results: low dose of HU increase cytotoxicity and QCT reverse to basal level of inflammation. From these knowledge further study must be designed to better understand HU and QCT molecular mechanisms and finally reduce HU side effects. For these my reasons I think that manuscript may be accepted following my suggestions also marked in red in the attached file Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Quercetin reduces hydroxyurea induced cytotoxicity in immortalized mouse aortic endothelial cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3376v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Priscila Hermann ·
Apr 26, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
- Some literature references are very old. Since SCD is a well-studied subject, there are several current revisions that can be used. - The legends of the figures are repeating the experimental design of the study. I suggest that all the information regarding the experimental phase be placed in the material and methods section. - Figure 4 is citing "the most effective dose from Figure 2", but I think it´s dose from Figure 3, isn´t it?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
As SCD is a serious public health problem in many countries, any data that can improve the quality of life of the patient being treated is of paramount importance. Cite this review as
Hermann P ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Quercetin reduces hydroxyurea induced cytotoxicity in immortalized mouse aortic endothelial cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3376v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 22, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
