Review History for A fossil unicorn crestfish (Teleostei, Lampridiformes, Lophotidae) from the Eocene of Iran [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A fossil unicorn crestfish (Teleostei, Lampridiformes, Lophotidae) from the Eocene of Iran To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 12th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 2nd, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 4th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 5th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jérémy Anquetin
·
May 5, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the revised version of your manuscript. I am now in a position to accept your submission for publication in PeerJ. Congratulations and thank you for choosing PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 4, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jérémy Anquetin
·
May 2, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Your manuscript was reviewed by two referees who have only made a few minor suggestions for improvement. Please consult the two annotated manuscripts for these proposed changes. In addition, you will note that the first reviewer points out that the supraoccipital crest is not clearly visible in the drawing, and that the second reviewer would welcome some additional information regarding the association between dorsal fin rays and pterygiophores. In addition to the reviewers’ suggestions, here are a few remarks I have after reading your manuscript. - lines 23–24: you should probably cite species names, not just the genus - line 32: ‘an anteriorly’, not ‘ a anteriorly’ - line 55: spell out genus name at the beginning of the sentence - lines 55–57: this sentence is somewhat difficult to read, please rephrase it - lines 65 and 70: are you sure these should be third level headings? - line 137: ‘consists only of’ instead of ‘consists in only’ - line 210: add a comma after ‘segmentation’ to improve readability - lines 295–311: I wonder if this part would be more appropriate in the Introduction (I let you decide)
label_author_1
Alexander Bannikov ·
Apr 25, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
One reference (lines 381-382) should be corrected
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Description needs in some emendation: Lines 173-174: ascending process and alveolar process of the maxilla is a nonsense! Line 177: unclear what is concave; not fenestra but interosseus space. Lines 182, 209: it is not necessary what might be preserved (but not preserved). Line 304: lampridiforms or Lampridiformes? Line 336: add Borisyak. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Bannikov A ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "A fossil unicorn crestfish (Teleostei, Lampridiformes, Lophotidae) from the Eocene of Iran (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3381v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Dave Johnson ·
Apr 28, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The data are well presented. I have suggested wording/English changes in the uploaded Word document. One important thing is that the serial or supernumerary association of anteriomost dorsal fin rays with relevant pterygiophores should be clarified.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
NA
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
One might argue whether the separate genus is warranted, but, particlarly in the absence of a formal cladistics analysis this is a subjective matter.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I find very little to criticize here - just tighten up the English/wording, and it's ready to go. I reviewed in WORD and reconverted to PDF - italicized words did not convert - sorry about that. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Johnson D ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "A fossil unicorn crestfish (Teleostei, Lampridiformes, Lophotidae) from the Eocene of Iran (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3381v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 12, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
