Review History for Combining multi-dimensional data to identify key genes and pathways in gastric cancer [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Combining multi-dimensional data to identify key genes and pathways in gastric cancer To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 19th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 25th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 4th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 7th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alfonso Valencia
·
May 7, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Authors, Thanks for addressing the reviewers comments and suggestions. The addition of the new network analysis data, new version of David, together with other small changes and additions makes the paper clearer and easier to follow.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 4, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alfonso Valencia
·
Mar 25, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors, As you can see below the referees suggest a number of small changes that should be incorporated in the revised version. Furthermore, they recommend to extend the analysis and discussion in an attempt to identify more clear links with gastric cancer beyond the currently identify genes and functions, that seems to correspond to general cancer related functions, such as proliferation and cell cycle.
label_author_1
Vera Pancaldi ·
Mar 7, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1)This paper is written in standard English, it is clear and I will only mention a few points where I would make changes: - Throughout the text the authors speak of 'bimodal interactions' to refer to consistent combination of up/down regulated regulators and targets. I am not sure this term is appropriate. Maybe these could be called just regulatory interactions? - Line 49, 3' untranslated region - Line 68, change ; for , - Line 99 Genomic should be genomic - Line 123 the sentence is unclear - Line 187 I think there is a problem, if we eliminate the inversely correlated pairs how can we impose r<-0.1 - Line 194 unclear 'After remaining' Line - 290 PPI network centralization - not sure what this means - Figure 3 caption: labeled with red and blue (not on) 2) Literature is cited appropriately - at least on the clinical aspects of the work 3) The data is provided with the code and the structure is ok
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The question addressed is whether integration of multiple datasets for gastic cancer can identify genes of interest and their regulators as possible biomarkers or drug targets for this disease. - Line 145 the power law of the degree distribution is mentioned but not used. Only the degree is considered in the end. Also the network has some directed edges which are not taken into account in the calculation Gene ontology analysis with DAVID should be updated to a newer version of the tool (6.7 is from 2010). The analysis seems correctly performed, it is very basic. It would be nice if the authors could expand the network analysis a bit more. Just seeing genes that are connected is only one aspect of the network topology (could consider betweenness, difference between in-degree/out-degree, clustering coefficient).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
- Line 184 MYEF2 no mentioning of importance of this finding, could be interesting - Line 215 no mentioning of significance of findig progesterone mediated oocyte maturation Unfortunately nothing major can be concluded by this analysis other than the fact that the cell cycle and srk are important in gastric cancer. The authors could compare with finding in other gastric cancer papers or delve a bit deeper on the few findings that are not facts already known in the literature (cancer is associated to cell cycle and DNA damage...). There is no discussion about whether the observation of interactions on the 3 levels matches what one would expect. Whereas it is clear that methylation at promoters can in general be associated to reduced gene expression, it is not clear at all whether miRNA and CNA regulation should be in one direction or the other. miRNAs appear to be regulating directly or inveresely a similar number of genes (100 vs 112) and the same is true for CNA to a lesser extent (47 vs 66). The authors could comment on this more.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The work is correct and reproducible based on the material provided. The authors should make the suggested modifications to the text to improve its clarity. However, the authors could make more effort to further interpret their findings or provide a more extensive analysis. The claim that they find biomarkers for gastric cancers is in part justified (they do identify genes that could be biomarkers) but they are likely to be genes that are markers for any proliferative state (cell cycle). More effort could be made to dig in these networks for some novel candidate biomarkers or to dissect unknown aspects of their regulation. Cite this review as
Pancaldi V ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Combining multi-dimensional data to identify key genes and pathways in gastric cancer (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3385v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Simeng Wang ·
Mar 17, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
a. In line 43, it is better to say “improving gastric cancer outcome”. b. In line 271-272, it is clearer to say “the identified regulated genes were divided into 2 groups and each group contained 4 genes that are either associated with cell cycle regulation or not”. c. In line 278, it is better to say “genes not involved in cell cycle pathway”. d. In the line 289, it is better to change “may have affected” to “may affect”.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
a. It’s better to have a more specific aspect rather than a simply list of all the information. b. The methods are described with sufficient detail and information.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data and statistical analysis are well demonstrated.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Authors have provided a significant work of screening candidate key genes and pathways potentially involved in gastric cancer, although it requires a huge amount of work in future to identify their functions. For one thing, I suppose that it will be more interesting if authors could dig into genes concerning one specific aspect of gastric cancer to get more solid and confirmed data in future study. For another, authors need to pay more attention to the language to convey clearer and more accurate ideas to readers. Cite this review as
Wang S ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Combining multi-dimensional data to identify key genes and pathways in gastric cancer (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3385v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 19, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
