Review History for Infrared thermography applied to lower limb muscles in elite soccer players with functional ankle equinus and non-equinus condition [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Infrared thermography applied to lower limb muscles in elite soccer players with functional ankle equinus and non-equinus condition To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 7th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 31st, 2017. The first revision was submitted on April 20th, 2017 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 8th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jason Gill
·
May 8, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The reviewers feel that you have addressed their concerns, so I am happy to accept your paper now.
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
May 5, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Please pay attention to the references format, in particular to the references 16 and 17. Appearance of the tables (e.g. lines) can be improved.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
In Statistical analysis, line 140 should be: "Unpaired Student’s t-tests were performed to determine differences between the groups (equinus vs. non-equinus), and paired Student's t-tests were used to investigate differences between imaging sessions (before vs. after running). Please insert unit of measurement of body mass index in table 1.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors provided sufficient responses to all the reviewer comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Infrared thermography applied to lower limb muscles in elite soccer players with functional ankle equinus and non-equinus condition (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3388v0.2/reviews/2 External reviews were received for this submission. These reviews were used by the Editor when they made their decision, and can be downloaded below. Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter Download external reviews
- submitted Apr 20, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jason Gill
·
Mar 31, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Two reviewers have carefully reviewed your paper and found merit in this work. They have, however a number of concerns about the paper in its present form and have suggested that you make a number of major revisions to paper. Please could you ensure that you address all of their comments in your revised version. In particular, please ensure that you present the data in the excel spreadsheet more clearly and check that the temperatures are reported correctly.
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_2
Ron Coutts ·
Mar 27, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Reasonably simple experimental design, well executed. A few minimal "English" errors Raw data is difficult to analyse in it's current form, presumably copied from a number of spreadsheets.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Good use of template to ensure accurate measurement positions, and use of single rater.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
As it is presented the findings do not appear to be correct. I believe the data has been inverted GSE vs non-GSE
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Obviously of clinical significance, would have benefitted from more review before submission. I'm sure your observations are correct but the data does not confirm this. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Coutts R ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Infrared thermography applied to lower limb muscles in elite soccer players with functional ankle equinus and non-equinus condition (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3388v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 31, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The study is sufficiently readable, but in some cases the used terms are not specific for the context. Nevertheless, language can be improved. The introduction section contains all the key elements of the study. However, it is very concise, and the key points (such as the relationship between posture alterations and cutaneous temperature modifications) result only cited and not well connected between each other. I suggest to dedicate more space to explain deeply the relationship between GSE, posture, cutaneous temperature, thermography. Cited literature within the whole manuscript is pertinent, but I suggest referring to some more papers regarding methodological aspects related to the analysis of thermal images and the skin temperature distribution: Kurt Ammer, Damiano Formenti. Editorial: Does the type of skin temperature distribution matter?. Thermology International. 26(2):51-54. 2016. Damiano Formenti, Nicola Ludwig, Alessio Rossi, Athos Trecroci, Giampietro Alberti, Marco Gargano, Arcangelo Merla, Kurt Ammer, Andrea Caumo. Skin temperature evaluation by infrared thermography: Comparison of two image analysis methods during the nonsteady state induced by physical exercise. Infrared Physics and Technology. 81:32-40. 2017. In the manuscript there is one figure (Figure 1) and 3 tables. Figure 1 seems out of focus. Is it possible to substitute it with another image? Graphic appearance of the tables should be improved. CI column can be deleted. What does the term “Bilat” mean). I suppose it should be deleted. The real obtained p-values are expressed, so substitute “<” with “=”. Delete also the column N, and I suggest to insert the n values of both groups in the legend.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The aim of this study was to investigate the skin temperature modifications of triceps surae and tibialis anterior in response to a 30 min running exercise in subjects with gastrocnemius equinus condition compared to a control group. The topic of the study is really interesting. However, the authors do not state the research question clearly, as the hypothesis is not present. Also, it is not clear how this study can contribute to fill a gap in the literature, if the gap is present. In the introduction the authors should state what this study add to the existing literature. The final part of the introduction should express clearly the aim of the study, as well the hypothesis. Methodology is not accurately described. I have some important concerns that should be addressed: Line 110: insert unit of measurement of body mass index. Line 117: why did the authors considered maximum, minimum and mean temperature of the region of interests? Which is the advantage of using these three temperature parameters? Authors present the three parameters in the tables and results, however they do not consider to discuss such results, and whether there are differences between the three temperature parameters. Line 128: please delete “To improve the accuracy of the imaging”. Line 140: “ensure” instead of “improve”. Line 143-144: why did the authors choose 30 min on a treadmill at 9 km/h? Why not another exercise? Why not 20 min at 8 km/h? Please justify the choice of this protocol. Line 150: “…were analysed by the same rater (DRS) using the FLIR…” This is the major point that I have to rise: Statistical analysis and data presentation. Line 169: Statistical analysis seems inappropriate. In order to test the difference between the two groups, an unpaired sample student’s t test should be performed. A paired student’s t test should be performed to test the same group before and after running. However, I would suggest to perform a two way mixed anova (group x time) with repeated measurements on one factor (time), where group is GSE and nonGSE, and time is before and after running. This test should be performed for right and left limb separately, thus having 2 two way mixed anova. Line 174: Results. Results section is very poorly presented. I suggest to describe with more details the main findings together with data of the tables.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Certainly, the present findings are interesting and the conclusion described by the authors are coherent to the results presented. However, since statistical analysis seems inappropriate, I would be more cautious in drawing certain conclusion. For example, in Line 214, supposing to have the same results with the appropriate statistical analysis, I would propose: “GSE groups showed a higher TA skin temperature. Therefore, Infrared thermography, in the way it measures skin temperature, could serve as screening tool for preventing or therapeutic actions.” Line 217: please delete “abnormal” and “distribution”. What is considered abnormal and what normal? Moreover, since the authors did not evaluate the variability of the pixels temperature within a region of interest, it may be misleading. In fact, it usually refers to the distribution of the pixel temperatures within a region of interest. Moreover: It is not discussed why no differences between the two groups were found before running, and why significant differences were found after running. Did the running exercise serve a stimulus? Which are the underlying physiological bases? I would suggest to provide further possible explanation of these findings within the discussion.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Infrared thermography applied to lower limb muscles in elite soccer players with functional ankle equinus and non-equinus condition (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3388v0.1/reviews/2 External reviews were received for this submission. These reviews were used by the Editor when they made their decision, and can be downloaded below. Download Original Submission (PDF)
Download external reviews
- submitted Mar 7, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
