Review History for Coronatine inhibits stomatal closure and delays hypersensitive response cell death induced by nonhost bacterial pathogens [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Coronatine inhibits stomatal closure and delays hypersensitive response cell death induced by nonhost bacterial pathogens To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 23rd, 2012 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 30th, 2012. The first revision was submitted on January 8th, 2013 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 16th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Thomas Lubberstedt
·
Jan 16, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The reviewer comments have been properly addressed, the manuscript is acceptable.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 16, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The revised version has answered the questions from both reviewers properly and should be accepted.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No Comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Coronatine inhibits stomatal closure and delays hypersensitive response cell death induced by nonhost bacterial pathogens (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.34v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 8, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Thomas Lubberstedt
·
Dec 30, 2012
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
A point by point response to each comment provided by the two reviewers has to be given by the authors in a satisfactory way, before this manuscript may become acceptable.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 29, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Please specify 'a, b and c/d' in Figure2B and Figure 3D, Figure 4 at the figure legends.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
How many biological and technical replicates for each sample are used for the real-time PCR? Ideally, three independent biological replicates and two technical replicates for each treatment are required to get meaningful statistical result. Please explain why 6h and 12h after inoculation were chosen to study the expression level?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
It would be nice if the authors can discuss a few sentences about other factors that affect the defense mechanisms of nonhost disease resistance.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Coronatine inhibits stomatal closure and delays hypersensitive response cell death induced by nonhost bacterial pathogens (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.34v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 27, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Summary Please add a concluding sentence at the end stating the relevance of this study. Introduction 1)There are no references cited in this section. Please add citations throughout the introduction as needed. 2)Third paragraph: a.second sentence sounds ambiguous and author may wish to replace the word “non-adapted”. Is it “non-host” better? b.Third sentence: spell the word syringae
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Material and Methods 1)First paragraph (Plant and pathogen materials): details on bacterial culturing are missing. a.Reference or composition of King’s B medium? b.Which antibiotic and concentration was used? c.Last two sentences should be deleted. Different types of inoculum were used (suspended in water or MES). It is unlikely that 1 ml of bacterial culture is enough for spraying a plant as mentioned in results. 2)Second paragraph (stomata assay): 100ng/ml (300 uM) of COR was used for stomatal assays. This is about 200 times more than the amount (0.5ng/ml or 1.5 uM) used by Zhao et al. 2003 and Melotto et al. 2006 in their assays. A dose response experiment should be included to justify the use of such high concentration of a purified chemical. 3)Procedure for spray-inoculation is not described. Authors should consider adding a section describing pathogenesis assay (inoculation, vehicle for inoculation, mock control, bacterial counts in planta, etc.). 4)Inhibition of non-host HR cell death: a.reference for the RNAi line should be added or an explanation how this line was obtained. b.What was the concentration of COR used for DAB staining? Reference for the procedure is missing. 5)Real-time quantitative PCR: a.the description under this section is for RT-qPCR. Please revise the sub-heading accordingly. b.Please describe the how fold expression was calculated (add the equations, the software used, or a reference). c.I could not find Table 1 with primer sequences in the manuscript.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Results and Discussion It is widely accepted that non-host bacteria causes HR in tomato, while the host bacteria does not. Therefore, Figure 1 repeats the literature. It is widely accepted that stomatal closure is a functional output of plant’s defense against bacteria (host or non-host). This has been shown in innumerous plant pathosystems including tomato (the pathosystem used in this study). It has been also shown that COR re-opens stomata that have been closed by the non-host-specific PAMPs LPS, flg22 of different biological sources. Therefore, Figure 2 is a repetition of the literature. Figure 3C: This is the only figure panel in this manuscript that convincingly shows COR-meditated suppression of HR in non-host plant. Yet, discussion about this figure is underdeveloped. Figure 3D: The authors state that “The level of bacterial growth of nonhost pathogen P. syringae pv. tabaci (with COR) was similar to the host pathogen P. syringae pv. tomato DC3000 one day after inoculation (dpi), but the bacterial population of P. syringae pv. tabaci was reduced at 3 dpi, suggesting that COR is not sufficient by itself to completely suppress the defense mechanism(s) of nonhost disease resistance”. However, they do not consider the alternative hypothesis that Ps tabaci +COR population titers in the plant is similar to that of Pst DC3000 at day 1 because COR facilitates that penetration of tabaci by keeping most of stomata opened (especially by the extremely high level of COR used). Additionally, it is possible that Ps tabaci population declines at day 3 because COR is not stable for that longer in the plant and its effect fades off over time. As a side note, it is not clear whether bacterial enumeration reported refers to apoplastic population or total population (epiphytic + endophytic). Figure 4 is an unnecessary repetition of the literature. COR is a non-host-specific toxin that up-regulates JA pathways and suppresses SA pathway. If any plant stress induces SA signaling, obviously by adding COR to the system, SA will be down-regulated; that is the action of COR at the cellular level. I would like to bring the authors attention to their data on ICS1 expression; mock treatment induces this gene in about 5 fold at 12h and COR alone does not. This clearly indicates that COR suppression of SA has nothing to do with what induces SA. COR simply keeps SA levels down and it is not specific no any stress.
Comments for the author
Authors should consider adding line numbers to facilitate the review. In general the manuscript is well written; however, important information is missing. For instance, the method section does not have enough details so that one can interpret the results (e.g. were plants surface-sterilized prior to bacterial count?). Three out of the four figures are repetition of published studies and the alternative explanations of the results are not presented (see comments on Figures 3D and 4) ; therefore, conclusions are weakly supported. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Coronatine inhibits stomatal closure and delays hypersensitive response cell death induced by nonhost bacterial pathogens (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.34v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 23, 2012 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
