Review History for Larval exposure to field-realistic concentrations of clothianidin has no effect on development rate, over-winter survival or adult metabolic rate in a solitary bee, Osmia bicornis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Larval exposure to field-realistic concentrations of clothianidin has no effect on development rate, over-winter survival or adult metabolic rate in a solitary bee, Osmia bicornis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 11th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 4th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 5th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 15th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Nigel Andrew
·
May 15, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am happy with the corrections made according to the reviewers comments. I think this manuscript should get a high level of interest. Congrats on an interesting piece of research.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 5, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Nigel Andrew
·
Apr 4, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers raise some useful points for you to consider in your revisions. I would also add that you need to identify in the introduction why it is important to compare continuous and discontinuous gas exchange here. Also did you measure bee activity when assessing the respirometry rates? This will be useful particularly to know if bees that are more active are using continuous gas exchange, versus more sedentary ones. I also think that lines 327-332 do not belong in the results. Line 236 - are you sure the chambers that your bees were kept in were 1.5ml?
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 20, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
A.It would be helpful to have the clothianidin concentrations stated in the abstract. This helps readers immediately assess relevance. If not, then I think it certainly belongs in the introduction (where concentrations found in OSR and field margins should also be stated). B.The introduction provides an excellent lead into the study and a valuable update.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
A_The experimental design is good and well reported B_Line 186: Isn’t any sugar provided? C_Line 195: Please include what information is presented in Peters 2017. D_Lines 201-203: Is this correct? 10% acetone is very high – is it not toxic? It would be helpful to comment on the UT survival rates to normal survival rates.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data are valid so long as caveated by the fact that some deficit may be hidden until adulthood and that this could not be investigated. This is particularly possible as the impact of neonicotinoids is largely on cognitive function and this has not been challenged in the current study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
A.Line 445: Some mention of potential effects on sexual bias or preferential loss of adults should be included as alterations in sex ratio have been observed following exposure to neonicotinoids in parasitic wasps (Whitehorn 2015), honey bees (Henry 2015) and bumble bees (Moffat 2016). Therefore, a potential impact could be delayed until breeding and sex provisioning, particularly if these require cognitive function (eg. Seen in N. vitripennis, Whitehorn 2015). B.This is a very important study that builds our knowledge that not all insect species are the same with respect to vulnerability and each neonicotinoid is also different. This same pattern of uncertainty extends to all chemical groups and species. Confidence requires empirical knowledge, not extrapolation. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Larval exposure to field-realistic concentrations of clothianidin has no effect on development rate, over-winter survival or adult metabolic rate in a solitary bee, Osmia bicornis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3417v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 30, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
L244 provide a short description of the measurement procedure. Did you observe behaviour of the bees during metabolic measurement? Differentiation between active and resting behaviour would be helpful as gas exchange patterns depends also on behaviour (activity). Dicontinous gas exchange is mainly observed in resting insects and contious gas exchange often in active (e.g. honeybees).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
L350 I would strongly suggest to analyse metabolic rate data depending on gas exchange patterns (CGE and DGE independent from each other, do not mix pattern!) and clothianidin treatments and present results at least in supplementary materials.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
General comments to the authors The authors represent an very interesting and important study concerning the discussion of impact of neonicotinoids on bee health. The experiments are well planned and conducted and reveal somewhat surprising findings. The manuscript is well suited for publication in PeerJ after a minor revision. Special comments Abstract L44 Is there a significant difference in development time? If not I would say “no effect …” Introduction Overall well done, but a little bit to long and detailed. Try to shorten and to focus the aim of the presented study. Materials and methods L244 provide a short description of the measurement procedure. Did you observe behaviour of the bees during metabolic measurement? Differentiation between active and resting behaviour would be helpful as gas exchange patterns depends also on behaviour (activity). Dicontinous gas exchange is mainly observed in resting insects and contious gas exchange often in active (e.g. honeybees). Results L329 cite also Kovac et al. (2007) for gas exchange patterns in bees. Kovac H, Stabentheiner A, Hetz SK, Petz M, Crailsheim K (2007) Respiration of resting honeybees. J Insect Physiol 53:1250–1261 L350 I would strongly suggest to analyse metabolic rate data depending on gas exchange patterns (CGE and DGE independent from each other, do not mix pattern!) and clothianidin treatments and present results at least in supplementary materials. Discussion Overall well done L404 consider activity of the bees! L407 depends also on total amount of produced CO2 Table 1 provide explanation for abbrevations Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Larval exposure to field-realistic concentrations of clothianidin has no effect on development rate, over-winter survival or adult metabolic rate in a solitary bee, Osmia bicornis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3417v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 11, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
