Review History for c-Kit modifies the inflammatory status of smooth muscle cells [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History c-Kit modifies the inflammatory status of smooth muscle cells To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 2nd, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 13th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on April 22nd, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 15th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Paul Tulkens
·
May 15, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
We apologize for the delay, but we wished to have the opinion of the original reviewers. As these did not respond to our invitation, I undertook to examine you rebuttal my-self. I was satisfied with the way you handled the remarks and suggestions raised by the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 22, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Paul Tulkens
·
Feb 13, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As you can see, your paper was reviewed by two experts in the field who expressed different opinions about the extent of the corrections to be made. I suggest that you try to take advantage of these suggestions to make your paper stronger. If you have solid arguments to reject some of them, please make them clear both to me and to the reviewers so that we can reach a decision. I cannot give you any guarantee of acceptance at this stage without seeing how you handled the suggestions made. Please, do not hesitate to ask for an extension of the delay for resubmission if you decide to perform additional experiments in order to better meet the reviewers criticisms.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 27, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The study is a starightforward to elucidate the function of c-Kit in SMC biology and valuable for further clarification.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Generally, the study is well designed for experimental approach.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In the function of c-Kit in SMS biology where SMC such as aortic or vascular endothelial linked SMC are a direct mediator of the atherosclerosis and inflammatory proliferation upon NF-kB, AP-1 and c-fos kinations. The authors have found and suggested a new mechanism by which c-Kit inhibits NF-<U+03BA>B target gene regulation in SMC. For the c-Kit-regulated NF-kB suppression, c-Kit is dependent on the TGFß-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) and Nemo-like kinase (NLK) activity. This is an interesting study with a new information of c-Kit-NF-kB-TAK1/NLK pathway-mediated SMC phenotype changes. However, the present manuscript is suffered from the insufficient mechanistic explanation on the global SMC biology. The followings are some of the major criticisms to justify the author's claims. 1. How about the distribution of c-Kit expression in various SMC types ? What is the general function of c-Kit in SMS biology, for example, with regard to the ligands. 2. Upon TNF-a ttreatment or proinflammatory condition, how about the expression level of c-Kit (please note that NF-kB and other related transcription factors are highly expressed in the same condition. 3. For the NF-kB-targeted gene during inflammation-regulated SMC proliferation, MMP-9 gene expression is exclusively subjected rather than MMP-2 due to MMP-9 promoter sequence. Therefore, MMP-9 should be examined and also COX-2 or iNOS... 4. Fig. 4 is wrongly illustrated because pNF-kB binds the promoter region of the target genes.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript should be returned back to the authors for fundamentally additional experiments, as raised above. Although the basic findings of the present study are valuable for further evidences to be accepted in journals. Thus, the present form should be rejected. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "c-Kit modifies the inflammatory status of smooth muscle cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3418v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Claudia Monaco ·
Feb 13, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript by Song et al. describes the original finding that loss of c-Kit in smooth muscle cells induces activation of both canonical and alternative nuclear factor kappa B pathways. This is relevant to cardiovascular diseases and other settings where there is dysregulation of smooth muscle cell function.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors used microarrays datasets and in vitro signalling to reach their conclusions. Their approach is adequate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are of extreme interest both for vascular biology and pathogenesis of disease. The findings also raise the key question of whether the results are cell type specific. The usage of NFkB signalling has been shown before to be cell specific and often species specific. The contrasting literature the authors refer to could be explained in this context. It would be great if the authors had capacity to perform some in vitro assays to compare their findings in another cell type, for instance an inflammatory cell.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The findings are novel and valid. It would be useful to know if the signalling effects are cell-type specific. Cite this review as
Monaco C ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "c-Kit modifies the inflammatory status of smooth muscle cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3418v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 2, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
