Review History for Chemical composition and the potential for proteomic transformation in cancer, hypoxia, and hyperosmotic stress [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Chemical composition and the potential for proteomic transformation in cancer, hypoxia, and hyperosmotic stress To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 21st, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 28th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 15th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 16th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Maria Cristina Albertini
·
May 16, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I really appreciated how the authors performed the corrections suggested and discussed the points surfaced by the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 15, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Maria Cristina Albertini
·
Apr 28, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I suggest not to consider the experimental data (to test the outcome of the oxidative stress predictions on 3D cultures by mass spectrometry) requested from one of the reviewers since they are not pertinent.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 4, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The abstract is concise and descriptive. The document presents several typos (see below). I suggest having a native English speaker revising the grammar and the sentence flow throughout the manuscript. Examples: Line 4: myriad (of) molecular-level Lines 34, 41: incorrect use of the word ‘for’ Line 46: ‘the’ is missing – ‘the complexity of (the) underlying…’ Line 56: ‘is inherent to the’ and not ‘is inherent in the’ Line 123: Consider change ‘must take account of the gain’ to ‘must consider the gain’ … The author stated that there are few studies available addressing the thermodynamic potential related to proteome changes, though none is cited. Available literature should be discussed and cited properly. Tables 1-4 are well structured and their captions are adequate. Still, the meaning of n1 and n2 in the table legend is lacking. A good explanation for the thermodynamic concepts of average state of carbon and of water demand per residue is provided. Still, I suggest to introduce the commonly used term of ‘hydration shell’ to discern ‘protein hydration’ from ‘hydration state’. Equation R1 only accounts for Cys, Glu and Gln from the 20 amino acids (aa) that compose proteins. While this is a mathematical model, a brief comment is expected regarding the choice of these aa or the exclusion of the remaining 17 aa. The mathematical model was applied to understand the thermodynamic basis of the proteomic changes in several pathological and experimental conditions such as colorectal cancer, pancreatic cancer, hypoxia and hyperosmotic stress. Even though these are provided as working examples, some references are needed. For instance, line 157 (colorectal cancer) and line 222 (hypoxia) require referencing. Lines 168-169: Are you sure that n1 and n2 are always the number of down- and up-regulated proteins in cancer versus normal tissue? For instance, sets b, c, and p from Table 1 compare carcinoma samples with adenoma samples. Can adenoma be regarded as a normal tissue? Shouldn’t it be classified as a benign tumor? Please revise and rephrase it accordingly.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The goal is well presented and the paper addresses a relevant, yet obscure, question that may have impact in the (bio)medical/health sciences. Line92: Name the other sources. I am not sure about the inclusion of samples of chronic pancreatitis, autoimmune pancreatitis and diabetes mellitus (set d, l and q from Table 2) in the analysis due to the different pathological backgrounds. At least, they should be regarded as potential outliers and not just set s and, thus, they should be discussed accordingly in the R&D section. Also, regarding ‘hypoxia and 3D culture’, I do not feel that cells cultured as spheroids or other 3D models exactly replicate hypoxia models per se. While oxygen tension can be small in the core of the organoid/spheroid, there are other confounders that can explain changes in ZC and water demand per residue, such as nutrient deprival (and thus oxidation of unusual substrates), different extracellular architectures and even light penetration (which may affect redox reactions).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
My concern is with data heterogeneity. For instance, for pancreatic cancer, inclusion of diabetes mellitus, chronic pancreatitis and autoimmune pancreatitis may have biased diagrams from Figure 3. Additionally, inclusion of 3D cell culture models to mimic hypoxia is somehow controversial. Thus, I suggest to exclude these data from the thermodynamic analysis or discuss it in Supplementary data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The author provides an interesting topic on thermodynamic variables driving the proteomic changes in a variety of pathological and experimental conditions. If the concerns exposed above are duly addressed or justified I support the publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Chemical composition and the potential for proteomic transformation in cancer, hypoxia, and hyperosmotic stress (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3421v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 11, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The paper is substantially a good mathematical work based on deposited biological data, but in my opinion there is not a perfect match with the aim and scope of the journal that does not publish Mathematical Sciences paper.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The reported results may represent a new point of view of cellular and tissues behaviour dynamics, but they are based only on literature datasets without any direct examination of the formulated hypothesis, with a consequential speculation bias.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I suggest the authors to improve the paper with some experimental data performed by themselves. For example they could test the outcome of the oxidative stress predictions on 3D cultures by mass spectrometry. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Chemical composition and the potential for proteomic transformation in cancer, hypoxia, and hyperosmotic stress (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3421v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Alexander Goncearenco ·
Apr 28, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The paper is clearly written. I commend the author for sharing the raw data in an R package. 1. I recommend to shorten the abstract. 2. Considering ‘self-contained’ policy of the journal, I think it may not be appropriate to mention preliminary analysis of breast cancer, for which no data is shown, even if it is in the discussion section. Figures are appropriately labeled. 3. Perhaps Figure 4 could be moved to supplementary information. 4. Figure 3 has to be placed after equation 3. 5. I also think subfigures in Figure 3 could be arranged in a regular grid.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
1. Is total protein charge Z missing from the equation 1? It is part of the equation in Dick, 2014. 2. It may be mentioned in Dick, 2016 but I think it is necessary to explain why QEC amino acids are sufficient for assessing Zc of the protein. 3. Is there any known functional bias (GO enrichment) in QEC+ biased proteins? 4. A Figure connecting Figure 1 and Figure 2 and drawing parallels between cancer cells and hypoxic/hyperosmotic cells could be helpful. 5. Although it is mentioned in the caption, it is not that clear how to interpret the sign of mean differences, if it is up or down regulated proteins that have increase of Zc and NH2O. 6. It is not explained in the text why oxygen fugacity is added to equation 2.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
1. My major concern is disregarding the effect of metabolome changes on Zc and N_H2O since metabolic changes is one of the hallmarks of cancer. 2. I think there is a discussion point missing on whether the changes in protein concentrations are the result of physical constraints on protein synthesis/degradation or a manifestation of cellular response in terms of gene expression levels. 3. Speculative statements in conclusions should be moved to Discussion section.
Cite this review as
Goncearenco A ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Chemical composition and the potential for proteomic transformation in cancer, hypoxia, and hyperosmotic stress (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3421v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 21, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
