Review History for Characterization of the transcriptome and EST-SSR development in Boea clarkeana, a desiccation-tolerant plant endemic to China [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Characterization of the transcriptome and EST-SSR development in Boea clarkeana , a desiccation-tolerant plant endemic to China To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 17th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 7th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 3rd, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 16th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marion Röder
·
May 16, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised version of the manuscript has improved and the authors addressed all concerns of the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 3, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marion Röder
·
Mar 7, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please, provide a revised version of the manuscript according to the suggestions of the reviewers. Please, explain all changes in the manuscript in a rebuttal letter.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 22, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The article entitled “Characterization of the transcriptome and EST-SSR development in Boea clarkeana, a desiccation-tolerant plant endemic to China” reported the transcriptome characterization of Boea clarkeana and EST-SSR identification in this plant. The data generated from Illumina sequencing and the data analyzed soundly. Although this manuscript could be considered for publication, there are still several suggestions for the revision. 1.The title is “Characterization of the transcriptome and EST-SSR development in Boea clarkeana, a desiccation-tolerant plant endemic to China”. According to the result and discussion, the content related to the desiccation-tolerant features of this plant was so limited. The data associated with this aspect need to be analyzed or discussed. 2.There were several spell errors in the manuscript. Such as the word of MgCl2 in Line 177 should be MgCl2. Please check out these spell errors carefully throughout the manuscript. 3.The sentence of “Based on Nr annotations, 59,962 unigenes (65.57% of all unigenes) were assigned to three ontologies and subdivided into 55 subcategories with 501,897 functional GO terms of GO classifications (Fig. 3)” between the Line 224 to 226 need to rewrite. This meaning of this sentence is complex. First, if the GO analysis method was based on the Nr annotations? Second, the 501,897 functional GO terms, why so many terms? 4.Most of the functional annotation are so commonly. The date could be analyzed in detail. Such as, what are the highly expressed genes in the leave of B.clarkeana? If these genes are related to the desiccation-tolerant of this plant? 5.The EST-SSRs were identified from the unigenes of B.clarkeana. The predicted function of these unigenes containing SSRs could be depicted and discussed, which will provide the possible application for these SSR. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Characterization of the transcriptome and EST-SSR development in Boea clarkeana, a desiccation-tolerant plant endemic to China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3422v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 1, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors report transcriptome data for the desiccation tolerant plant Boea clarkeana. The data are useful for the scientific community working on desiccation tolerance, as they broaden the database for desiccation tolerant organisms. The authors also develop SSR markers for screening plant populations. However, the markers were not tested on a population, this then questions how useful it is to publish the markers in this manuscript. these markers
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The generation and analysis of the transcriptome data corresponds to stae of the art experimental procedures. The data deposition needs to be controlled, which is very important. The authors write that the data will be released in March 2018, this is not acceptable, the data need to be accessible at the time when this manuscript is published.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors do not provide a comparison to published transcriptome and genome data from Boea hygroscopica, this should be included and will make the manuscript much stronger. The authors mention functional studies several times, however no functional studies are provided, the authors provide a description of the transcriptome
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The following points should be included in a revision: -include a comparison with published transcriptome data from Boea hygroscopica -demonstare usefulness of selected SSR markers -make transcriptome data available at the time of publication -there are a number of linguistic errors throughout the manuscript which should be corrected, also the references should be controlled, some are not cited at the correct place. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Characterization of the transcriptome and EST-SSR development in Boea clarkeana, a desiccation-tolerant plant endemic to China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3422v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Mar 6, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The authors describe the characterization of the transcriptome of a desiccation-tolerant plant, Boea clarkeana. This work is quite reminiscent of the work already presented for Boea hygrometrica, and the authors make little effort in emphasizing what aspects are unique to B. clarkeana versus B. hygrometrica. The data generated is of course valuable to the B. clarkeana research community, and the SSR and SNPs identified helpful for marker development. However, simply reporting the original data or very preliminary analytical data, as the case in this study, made the current study very superficial. The English should be improved by somebody proficient. I was a little confused by some of the long sentences or inappropriate use of words, e.g. lines 330-332, 335, 359, 363, 393-397. In addition, I feel very sorry to see the first sentence of Abstract, which might be copied from the paper of Xiao et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2015, 112(18): 5833-5837.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The materials for RNA-seq is young leaves of three individual B. clarkeana plants without any desiccation-tolerance-related treatments. The main reason for sequencing B. clarkeana is its high desiccation tolerance (DT). If no DT treatments, how to find DT-related genes? Hence, I don’t think this study could improve our understanding of the genetic basis of DT in B. clarkeana.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The paper very descriptive. It is not so enlightening and showed no exciting findings about the transcriptome and the SSRs.
Comments for the author
1.The introduction needs more detail. The authors should provide more justification for their study. 2.The authors also developed EST-SSR molecular markers. Of course, they can do this. However, the authors didn’t explain why they do this job on B. clarkeana. 3.Similarly, they also detected SNPs and said nothing about the importance and necessity of SNP calling in the MS. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Characterization of the transcriptome and EST-SSR development in Boea clarkeana, a desiccation-tolerant plant endemic to China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3422v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 17, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
