Review History for Putative archaeal viruses from the mesopelagic ocean [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Putative archaeal viruses from the mesopelagic ocean To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 4th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 28th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 12th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 16th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Christopher Cooper
·
May 16, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Many thanks for responding to the reviewers comments in detail. Congratulations on your acceptance, and I look forward to seeing the finished article in press!, Best wishes, Chris
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 12, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Christopher Cooper
·
Mar 28, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Many thanks for your submission to PeerJ. Myself and the reviewers found your article very interesting and very suitable for publication in PeerJ, pending a few minor revisions. I hope this is satisfactory for you. Many thanks & best wishes, Dr. Chris Cooper
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is well written with extensive reference to the published literature. The figures and tables (in the manuscript and in the supplementary data) are of excellent quality and are well described by the legends. I have a few minor comments on typos etc. a) line 55: 'Resultantly' seems an odd word to me. Perhaps 'Consequently' would be better. b) line 58: what is 'liable' DOM? c) line 150: an apostrophe is not needed with bases d) line 315: do you really mean 'intuitive'? e) line 333: do you mean rarified or rare/uncommon? f) please ensure the species names are in italics in the references g) Fig. 1 legend; the temperatures appear as 28c and 6c in my pdf copy. h) Fig. 1: I cannot find reference to the chlorophyll units of measurement either in the legend or the materials and methods.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I found the experiments were well designed and executed. The authors explain clearly the need for a rapid means of identifying archaeal viruses in marine metavirome data, and have developed a script to process such data. While this script relies on previous BLAST comparisons and resulting annotations, the python script can be used to speed up the time from data collection to contig analysis, so provides a useful addition to the field. The authors first test the use of this script on publicly available data, and then apply it to new data (marine viromes from two sites) to identify novel archaeal virus contigs and relate these to the prokaryotic community structure and other environmental parameters at the two marine stations. The methods are well described and references given where needed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data is rigorously analysed and examined from different perspectives in order to test its robustness. Statistical significance is tested appropriately. I believe the conclusions are supported by the results, and indeed the authors have detected novel virus genomes and linked them to likely archaeal hosts - and so have considerable material for further investigation. I have a few minor comments: a) I see that the 16S rRNA sequence data has been submitted to GenBank, but I could not see if the viromes and/or assembled virus contigs would also be submitted? b) lines 460-464: Given the very low change in salinity, I think this section could be edited down somewhat. c) How do you intend to distribute your python script, or do you intend to offer a web-based service of some kind? While I have a copy as part of the review process (and I have looked through it!), I am not sure whether it will just be offered as a downloadable file or if you have plans to develop it further as an online resource.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a very well designed and executed study with useful results that will be of interest to a wide variety of marine microbiologists/virologists. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Putative archaeal viruses from the mesopelagic ocean (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3428v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 26, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is well written and reports a novel and potentially important group of archaeal viruses. The quality of the figures could be improved.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The method of assembly of the contigs is not described. A detailed description of how the contigs were generated is of the essence, particularly when assembling metaviriomes that are prone to chimeric assembly.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
It is a pity that the genomes are not compared with the ones in Philosof et al that although not officially published yet should be available from databases. At least it would be interesting to compare the genomes at the annotation level. e.g. do the viruses reported here have a replisome like the Philosof et al ones? Some of the novel viruses could be preying on Marine Group III, and this possibility should be mentioned. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Putative archaeal viruses from the mesopelagic ocean (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3428v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 4, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
