Review History for Tiny pollen grains: first evidence of Saururaceae from the Late Cretaceous of western North America [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Tiny pollen grains: first evidence of Saururaceae from the Late Cretaceous of western North America To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 22nd, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 18th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 10th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 17th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
William DiMichele
·
May 17, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I thank the authors for carefully considering the comments of the reviewers and for making such adjustments as were possible or as seemed prudent to them. Based on their responses to the reviews and on the minor changes made in the manuscript, I believe this paper is ready for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 10, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
William DiMichele
·
Apr 18, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This is an excellent contribution and the needed revisions are few. Reviewer 1 has annotated a copy of the manuscript. His comments are in red and so easily seen. Nearly all are editorial in nature. Reviewer 2 offers a small number of suggestions, some that require only the addition of citations or clarifications at particular points, and others that the authors should consider regarding improvements in illustrative or tabular material. Overall, however, this paper is very close to ready for publication. It will not require additional review unless the authors make changes of significance from the original submission. Therefore of course, and as usual, please explain any changes made (or suggestions from reviewers that were not implemented) in the covering letter that accompanies the resubmission.
label_author_1
Lanny Fisk ·
Mar 29, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The title and abstract are informative and clearly reflect the contents. The manuscript is clearly written in professional English. The manuscript includes sufficient introduction and background to demonstrate how the work fits into the broader field of knowledge and clearly states how the research closes a knowledge gap. The structure conforms to Peerj standards. Figures are relevant, high quality, well labeled, and described. Relevant prior literature is appropriately referenced, Figures/plates/tables are necessary, well-organized, and effective in clarifying scientific points. References are adequate and necessary.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The research design is well defined and described. Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical standard. Methods are described in sufficient detail to be reproducible by other investigators.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The paper describes original, novel, primary research. Data and interpretation are clearly separated. Conclusions are stated clearly and limited to supporting results. Hypotheses/Speculation are clearly identified and labeled as such. Interpretations and conclusions are adequately supported by the data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Well done! I commend the authors for their extensive and thorough work and their well written manuscript, making reviewing easy. Great contribution. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Fisk LH ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Tiny pollen grains: first evidence of Saururaceae from the Late Cretaceous of western North America (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3434v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 12, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper describes two new fossil taxa, one from the Late Cretaceous of North America, and the other from the Miocene of Europe, that enhance the fossil record of Saururuaceae. The finding is convincing and significant as it represents a much older record than previously known (Eocene). The material is nicely illustrated and complemented by additional data from the Eocene fossils and modern relatives. Specific comments: l. 208 – stratigraphic information is needed for S. stoobensis. l.280-286: This point (the small size of the grains meaning they are likely being missed in palynological analyses) was also made by Smith & Stockey (2007b) and they should be cited here. Table 1/2 – Paleogene North American Saururus is known from many individual flowers and fruits as well as the infloresence and dispersed pollen. (These are referred to in Smith’s thesis, as well as in Smith 2013 (The fossil record of non-commelinid monocots) as the fruits were initially described as alismatalean). Table 1 – aside from the modern distribution – is a bit redundant with Table 2 since Table 2 is divided into geographic regions as well. These two tables could be combined. Table 2 – Consistency is needed in referring to periods/epochs as early/late (referring to time) or upper/lower (stratigraphic reference). I don’t think that it matters which is used, just be consistent about it. Fig 1 – I suggest keeping “Protosaururus” in quotations since it is not a formally recognized name. Fig 2- looks a little bit washed out? The pollen grains would benefit from increased contrast. Fig 8 – what is the significance of stars vs. circles on the figure? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Tiny pollen grains: first evidence of Saururaceae from the Late Cretaceous of western North America (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3434v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 22, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
