Review History for Relating form to function in the hummingbird feeding apparatus [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Relating form to function in the hummingbird feeding apparatus To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 14th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 9th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 16th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on May 19th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 19th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Virginia Abdala
·
May 19, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for considering all the suggestions we made. This is truly a nice paper.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 19, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Virginia Abdala
·
May 17, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Although I am inclined to accept your work some minor issues require of your further attention. Please note that in your results section many paragraphs of discussion are interspersed. For example lines 529 to 540 among many others. Presenting your results free of discussion paragraphs would contribute a lot to reading fluency.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 16, 2017
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Virginia Abdala
·
May 9, 2017
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
First of all I would like to apologize for the delay in processing this ms. I have two reviews of your manuscript that find it quite interesting - both have provided additional PDFs. I think, however, that it needs more work to be suitable for publication. I am concerned about the lack of consideration of several recent papers on bird beak and skull morphological evolution. Please address the problem of the phylogenetic relationships of the six analyzed species.
label_author_1
Fritz Hertel ·
Apr 22, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I found only one reference not cited in the text. All else ok.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
All ok.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Detailed descriptions reasonably clear. Results fine. Conclusions well stated.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Good job, very thorough and well researched (good literature review). Most of my edits were grammatical or cosmetic for easier reading. The descriptions were detailed and thorough. Functional interpretations seem well supported. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Hertel F ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Relating form to function in the hummingbird feeding apparatus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3449v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Emily Rayfield ·
May 2, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper presents a broad structural and functional study of the unusual tongue structure of hummingbirds, focusing on ten specimens of six species. A range of imaging and ex-vivo functional approaches are employed to understand the tongue at different levels of resolution, from the macroscale to submicron detail. The first paragraph of the introduction decribes how bill shape is tightly correlated to diet, and cites Rubega 2000. There have been recent studies - Bright et al. 2016 that dispute this tight link between bird skull shape and function, and describe how allometry and phylogeny also play key roles. Furthermore, the recent 2017 Cooney, Bright et al. paper in Nature highlights how hummingbirds show rapid rates of diversification againts background rates in birds. The introduction needs to demonstrate a broader recent knowledge of advances in bird beak and skull morphological evolution. It is assumed throughout the text that the six species demonstrate similar structural and functional characteristics, but surely there must be some interspecific variation? How did you control for this during your analysis? And how are these six species related? Do they share a recent common ancestor or not?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The methods are clearly described and repeatable. They are appropriate for the various aims of the study and to address the overall aim of the research. The rationale for the study is stated, especially the focus on the tip of the tongue and how its structural properties contribute to nectar uptake.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are extremely interesting, novel and clearly presented. Inferences of feeding function are drawn from the ex-vivo work. Inference is clearly stated and the conclusions are not overblown but pave the way for future research.
Comments for the author
A very interesting and readable paper. Nothing further to add. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Rayfield E ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Relating form to function in the hummingbird feeding apparatus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3449v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 14, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
