Review History for Determinants of seasonal changes in availability of food patches for elephants (Loxodonta africana) in a semi-arid African savanna [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Determinants of seasonal changes in availability of food patches for elephants ( Loxodonta africana ) in a semi-arid African savanna To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 8th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 4th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 13th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 20th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michael Somers
·
May 20, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I enjoyed the MS and learned something worthwhile.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 13, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Somers
·
Apr 4, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
One referee suggests some form of presentation of the spatial variation in responses. The other suggests focusing more on the dynamics forage resources, and to discuss the broader implications (see comments below).
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 27, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors state that the actual modeling of the foraging responses of elephants to the dynamics of forage availability presented in this paper will be published elsewhere. Therefore the investigation is of interest for all herbivores, not just elephants, and the results are relevant for semi-arid savannas functioning with herbivore disturbances. I believe what the paper shows is that by finely describing processes behind forage dynamics (availability and quality) one can model the herbivore foraging behavior and predict animal movement. Here elephant is a species that adequately tests this approach (but not shown). I do not see why elephant and their impact on savannas have to be put at the fore-front in this paper, there is little discussion about that afterwards, it could shorten the introduction.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Great field work. A good read. I feel the paper could be shortened slightly, but broadened in scope,by focusing on the dynamics forage resources, and discuss the implications for elephants as well as other herbivores. I understand that the present study was triggered by an elephant study, but the level of information gathered is well beyond elephant foraging. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Determinants of seasonal changes in availability of food patches for elephants (Loxodonta africana) in a semi-arid African savanna (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3453v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Rob Slotow ·
Apr 2, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is well written. The literature review is sufficient, but suggest that the authors also access the recent literature on nutrient influences on elephant foraging decisions by Pretorius et al and Kohi et al. Also, Wooley et al demonstrate nutrient basis for elephant diet switching. The data are comprehensively reported, but this results in a large number of figures and tables, some of which could be moved to supplementary material to make the final paper more readable.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The paper is primary original research. The search questions Are well defined. The paper provides a robust emchanistic understanding of heterogeneity in savanna system looking at water as a primary driver, and this is important basis for explaining animal behavior, as proposed by the authors. The methods are sound and well describe. The one suggestion that I have is that it would be helpful to have some greater understanding of the variability in responses of different sampling locations to rainfall, within the stratified sampling types, i.e, among similar sites that one would expect to be the same. This may be particularly important for the grass response variability, and the Forbes' responses on sandy soils. Following from this, there is no presentation of the spatial variation in responses. It would be great to see the kinds of spatial scale that the demonstrated responses manifest. This could be a simple map of deviation from predicted mean value for a site based on the stats analyses. Not only the absolute values to see how water related responses manifest, but also the deviation from expectation, even if there is not a clear explanation for such deviation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Although the study is from one study site, the work is robust, and applicable across similar soil/vegetation/rainfall situations. The sample sizes ar adequate, the analyses sound, and properly conducted. The conclusions are clearly stated, and relate to the origins all research questions. The only suggestion I have is to probe more the spatial variation to complement the temporal analyses.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This may appear on first impression a relatively trivial study, in that we know that plants response to rainfall. However, the way that the authors pose the questions, and conduct the sampling and analyses, make this an important contribution to mechanistic understanding, which can be used as a basis to explain heterogeneity in animal behavior responses by elephant and other species. Such understanding is increasingly necessary as space for large herbivores is limited, and populations in restricted reserves are increasing. The authors may want to emphasis this aspect a bit more strongly in the discussion, and also link better to our increasing knowledge of mechanistic understanding of elephant decision making, such as the nutrient base decisions in the papers by Pretorius et al, Khohi et al, and Woolley et al., but also, for example, how stress affects movement strategies as per Jachowski et al paper in functional ecology. Cite this review as
Slotow R ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Determinants of seasonal changes in availability of food patches for elephants (Loxodonta africana) in a semi-arid African savanna (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3453v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 8, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
