Review History for Fluvial transport potential of shed and root-bearing dinosaur teeth from the late Jurassic Morrison Formation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Fluvial transport potential of shed and root-bearing dinosaur teeth from the late Jurassic Morrison Formation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 23rd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 11th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on March 24th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 25th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
John Hutchinson
·
Mar 25, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have checked the rebuttal with the revision and am satisfied that the reviewers' comments have been taken seriously, and no further revisions are needed. This paper is now accepted- congrats!
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 24, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
John Hutchinson
·
Mar 11, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
We've obtained constructive reviews from Dodson and Mallon that make some excellent points for future studies as well as for revising the paper. I agree that Mallon's points 3,4,6 are really important to address in the MS to maximize the value and clarity of the study; his other points deserve incorporation, too. Dodson also raises some points to consider and address in the Discussion. Please ensure you include a point-by-point Response when submitting the new version. If I am satisfied by this, I'll accept the revised paper without further review.
label_author_1
Peter Dodson ·
Mar 10, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Satisfactory in all fundamentals except as noted.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Satisfactory in part. The submission would be improved if more experimental work were performed with modern teeth and tooth casts, and also with a variety of substrates. Hopefully such experiments will be done in future.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The most important finding is that teeth are more likely to be transported when they are shed rather than rooted. MOre is not claimed than the evidence suggests.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This report describes a set of experiments investigating transport factors in several dinosaur teeth. An important finding is that shed teeth are more mobile than teeth with roots. The study is interesting and publishable, but it also raises a series of questions. Teeth are among the densest of biological materials. The use of lightweight casts as proxies is the first thing to question. It may be justifiable inasmuch as fossil teeth are likely to be more dense than their living equivalents, but one can imagine a parallel set of calibration experiments that involve making casts of teeth of living animal and then using the natural teeth as controls. It would be good to use a graded series of mammalian teeth. Does it make any sense to manipulate the density of the casts to approximate those of natural teeth? The other concern I have is smooth glassy substrate. I would imagine that in various natural substrates that burial of a tooth in situ could be the result. Again, if the substrate were coarse and the tooth relatively small that the tooth could be invisible to the passing current. I thus can imagine many ways to extend the experimental work to obtain a broader and more useful picture of tooth taphonomy. . l. 117 – 119: elongate and conical are shapes, not sizes or colors. It is redundant to say “conical-shaped.” On the other hand, compact is not a shape. Just say compact! l. 125: what does “distal proximity” mean? l. 216: caps please! l. 255: why relative distances? 50 cm is an absolute measure not a relative one. Fig. 5: I recommend adding label as in Gif. 4 of parallel and perpendicular to A and B to make it clear how the two charts differ. Cite this review as
Dodson P ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Fluvial transport potential of shed and root-bearing dinosaur teeth from the late Jurassic Morrison Formation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.347v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jordan Mallon ·
Mar 11, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is concise, well-presented, and clearly written. It is a good start to what will ultimately be an interesting and useful addition to the taphonomy literature. I feel there is much work yet to be done, however, including the following concerns: (1) The paper should be framed more explicitly as an hypothesis test. (2) The first paragraph of the Discussion repeats the results and should be re-written. (3) More problematically, I feel as though the manuscript is only half-baked. The authors do a fine job of demonstrating the differential transportability of root-bearing and shed teeth. However, I feel as though the palaeoecological ramifications of this observation were not fully considered. To what extent, if any, can these differences in transportability be corrected for? How do these observations impact real-world palaeoecological interpretations of microsites (e.g., Quarry 9 of the Morrison Formation)? Such additional analyses would greatly improve the paper and enhance its impact. Without them, the paper highlights an important taphonomic problem, but offers no help otherwise. (4) I'm not certain that the authors' observations re: the association of root-bearing teeth with associated skeletons, and the association of shed with feeding sites, has any bearing whatsoever on the relative transportability of said teeth. For example, shed teeth (lacking roots) aren’t likely to occur near associated skeletons in the first place (unless they belong to a predator) because the teeth are shed in life, as the animal is on the move, not after death. Similarly, it isn't clear how the association of shed teeth with feeding sites relates to transportability. This needs further explaination.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experiment, as presented, is well-executed. I do have some minor concerns, however: (5) I'm confused as to why a cast was not made of a root-bearing Camarasaurus tooth (i.e., why was the root fabricated?). If such teeth are common enough to warrant consideration, why was one not cast? (6) I feel that the authors did not do an adequate job of demonstrating that their data meet the assumptions of ANOVA (e.g., normal distribution). This should be done a priori (e.g., using a Shapiro-Wilk test).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are valid, but I wonder just how significant they are. In my experience, Late Cretaceous microsites in Alberta uniformly yield relatively few teeth of any kind with intact roots. Given this low variability, can such rare root-bearing teeth be said to have any taphonomic/palaeoecologic significance? My suspicion is 'not really'. Again, the consideration of a real-world example would really help to drive home the importance of this paper.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
See ms mark-up for additional (minor) comments. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Mallon J ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Fluvial transport potential of shed and root-bearing dinosaur teeth from the late Jurassic Morrison Formation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.347v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 23, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
