Review History for Non-bleached colonies of massive Porites may attract fishes for selective grazing during mass bleaching events [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Non-bleached colonies of massive Porites may attract fishes for selective grazing during mass bleaching events To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 24th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 13th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 18th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 26th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Magnus Johnson
·
May 26, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You have addressed the comments from reviewers to my satisfaction. I take a small issue with the term "marginally significant" though (line 128). If you are working to the p < 0.05 paradigm, things are either significant or they are not!
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 18, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Magnus Johnson
·
May 13, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This is an interesting, well written and worthwhile paper, however both I and the reviewers would like to see more comprehensive analyses of your results (see reviews and annotated pdf). In particular I think you need to account for possible interaction of species, site etc using some sort of mixed model. I have found the book: Data Analysis with R Statistical Software by Rob Thomas et al to be a very helpful, no nonsense guide to analysing data such as you have.
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 20, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
On line 146, independent paragraph is not needed because authors discuss the same topic (relation between grazing scar densities and coral healing speed) as do in the above paragraph.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I am curious about the definition of bleached coral in this manuscript. Does bleached coral include both alive and dead colonies? both completely bleached colonies and partially bleached colonies? This definition affects discussion in which the thickness of tissues is considered as an important factor. Clear definition is needed in Materials and Methods. Statistical analyses are not proper. I am not statistician so just note deficiencies. As figure 4 shows, authors surveyed 11 sites, but compared number of grazing scars (additionally colony size and habitat depth) only between bleached and non-bleached by Mann-Whitney U-test (see lines 99, 108-112). Site and interaction between site*bleached/non-bleached are better to be included as explanatory variables. Authors used an ordered logistic regression model with the degree of scarring as the response variable, and colony size, depth, and bleaching occurrence as explanatory variables. In this analysis, site is ignored. Samples (coral colonies) in a site are not independent as corals in different sites, and therefore site is better to be included as an explanatory variable. Additionally, descriptions about statistical values and R package (and its version) are necessary.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Authors surveyed the grazing scars on bleached and non-bleached Porites in 11 sites in Sekisei lagoon during the mass-bleaching event and found that grazing scars were more abundant on non-bleached corals than on bleached corals. This finding is valuable and worth being published in PeerJ. I just commented on statistical analyses to strengthen their achievement. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Non-bleached colonies of massive Porites may attract fishes for selective grazing during mass bleaching events (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3470v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Tetsuo Kuwamura ·
Apr 23, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper clearly shows that non-bleached colonies of Porites spp. were grazed more frequently than bleached ones for the first time. I have only three minor comments. 1. For the degree of scaring (5 stages: Line 89), % is shown in the caption of Figure 3 (line 173–174). Please explain how to calculate the percentage. Also describe how to relate to the degree as is shown for the 5 categories of colony size (Line 90–91). For example, degree 0: 0%; 1: < 5%, etc. 2. The grazing scars are not so clearly visible on the bleached colony shown in Fig. 3e. The picture should be exchanged. 3. For the reason why non-bleached colonies were selectively grazed (Line 118–), I have one question. Is it possible that non-bleached colonies are preferred because they contain many zooxanthellae that will be digested by corallivorous fishes? Cite this review as
Kuwamura T ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Non-bleached colonies of massive Porites may attract fishes for selective grazing during mass bleaching events (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3470v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 24, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
