Review History for LuxS-dependent AI-2 production is not involved in global regulation of natural product biosynthesis in Photorhabdus and Xenorhabdus [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History LuxS-dependent AI-2 production is not involved in global regulation of natural product biosynthesis in Photorhabdus and Xenorhabdus To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 21st, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 4th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 23rd, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 26th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Nancy Keller
·
May 26, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your revisions met the spirit of the reviewer's comments and we are happy to accept your work.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 23, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Nancy Keller
·
Apr 4, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
We were able to obtain two expert reviewers and both recommended Minor Revisions. I concur with their remarks.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 2, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
There are numerous (but very minor) syntax and grammatical mistakes with the English language used throughout this manuscript. Although these errors are not significant they could readily be corrected by a careful reading of the manuscript by a native English speaker e.g. line 63 should read "..LuxS is not exclusively an AI-2 synthase"
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This reviewer is not convinced that adding water to wells during biofilm formation is appropriate. To avoid evaporation issues these assays should be carried out in a humidified box (e.g. food storage box containing tissue/filter paper saturated with water).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Statistics are required for Figure 5A
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is an interesting manuscript that compared the luxS mutant phenotype in 2 distinct lineages of P. luminescencs TTO1. This manuscript shows, contrary to an earlier study, that luxS (and therefore AI-2) is not involved in the regulation of NP production (and other phenotypes) in P. luminescens. 1. Figure 2: are there only 3 sequenced strains of Photorhabdus? What about strains of P. temperata? 2. does AI-2 accumulate in the supernatants of TTO1G and TTO1F cultures to the same level? Can Photorhabdus assimilate/degrade AI-2? 3. is it possible to determine carbapenem production using overlay assays? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "LuxS-dependent AI-2 production is not involved in global regulation of natural product biosynthesis in Photorhabdus and Xenorhabdus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3471v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 2, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this article Heinrich and colleagues studied the role of the bacterial quorum sensing molecule, AI-2 and its synthase, LuxS, in the entomopathogenic bacteria Photorhabdus and Xenorhabdus. AI-2 is known to function in interspecies communication and controls collective functions of many bacteria, however, its function in entomopathogenic species was not fully understood. Focusing on natural product (NP) production, stress response and bioluminescence, the authors explore luxS-dependent regulation of two commonly used Photorhabdus luminescens laboratory strain. Although the results are generally negative, i.e. the authors did not discover a major role for luxS in these processes, I believe the data will be useful for researchers in the field. Major and minor comments have been listed below.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Major comments: -Figure 1 and title: figure 1 shows that two NPs are differentially regulated in the absence of luxS in the French strain. Therefore the title might be misleading and should be adjusted accordingly. -Figure 2B: How was the 3’ end of micA determined? Does micA terminate by a rho-independent process? -Figure 3: Given the differences in strain construction of the two luxS mutant strains tested, it would be useful to include a complementation strain in these experiments in which luxS is expressed either from a plasmid, or better, from an alternative position in the chromosome. Minor comments: -Abstract, line 16: what is meant by “alternative quorum sensing”? -Table 2: italicize gene names. -Line 335: add “space” after “behave”. -The results in Fig. 4B are hard to read and it is difficult to distinguish the symbols. -Fig. 4C: change “mic” to “micA”
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Except for the complementation strain requested above, I do not see any problems with the data and the interpretation.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "LuxS-dependent AI-2 production is not involved in global regulation of natural product biosynthesis in Photorhabdus and Xenorhabdus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3471v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 21, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
