Review History for Predicting suitable habitat of the Chinese monal (Lophophorus lhuysii) using ecological niche modeling in the Qionglai Mountains, China [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Predicting suitable habitat of the Chinese monal ( Lophophorus lhuysii ) using ecological niche modeling in the Qionglai Mountains, China To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 1st, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 26th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 27th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 30th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Patricia Gandini
·
May 30, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
It's my pleasure to inform you that, after the peer review, your paper, Predicting suitable habitat of the Chinese monal (Lophophorus lhuysii) using ecological niche modeling in the Qionglai Mountains, China; has been Accepted.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 27, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Patricia Gandini
·
Apr 26, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As usual for manuscripts submitted for publication as an Original Paper, your paper has been evaluated by two peer reviewers. Concerning this submission, however, they are both quite critical, express major concerns with your ms and unambiguously advise against publication of your work as is. Most importantly, their criticisms touch not only shortcomings in the presentation of your work (starting with the need of a thorough language makeover) but they also provide some general comments on more severe issues, the proper addressing of which would call for a very substantial revision of your ms. English language is not perfect. At several places, articles are missing or other smaller grammatical mistakes make the text more difficult to understand. You also have to clarify why the selected variables are the ones that best represent habitat suitability (see Rev2 ), and to clarify why your analysis is not an over –interpretation as is suggested by Rev 2. When revising your ms, I sincerely ask you to adequately address EACH of the referees' comments, as well as EACH of my general remarks on format issues, by either incorporating the suggestions in the revision, if possible, or providing brief but convincing rebuttals in case you do not agree with them. The referees' comments can be found at the end of this email.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 14, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Overall, this was a very interesting manuscript written in a professional way with very nice figures supporting data. However, English language could be improved. Specifically, I noticed an overuse of articles. Even though this does not mean that comprehension is difficult I consider it could be written in a better way. Some examples where the language could be improved include lines 34, 36-38, 57-58, 107, 108, 129, 209, 228, 267. (Please check my specific annotated suggestions on the text)
Experimental design
label_ed_1
In general, experimental design is clear. I commend the authors for their extensive data set on presence points, compiled over 10 years of fieldwork and published literature. Regarding, this last source of data I wonder whether results vary if authors exclude from the analysis those 12 records obtained from network database and published literature (since those presence points may be less reliable than your own fieldwork observations). In lines 95-97 I would also suggest to better explain how some points were discarded from analysis.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Very interesting conservation recommendations are derived from results of this study. I would only recommend to be careful with some statements declared in the discussion section (lines 236, 281-281) because some are not directly supported by results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript by Wang et al. deals with a chinese galliform bird (Chinese monal) threatened by illegal trapping and habitat loss. The ecological niche modeling aims to distinguish potential suitable habitats for this species and provide suggestions for conservation management. Even though it is considered VU by the IUCN, the species has high conservation value in terms of phylogenetic diversity, meaning that the species contributes in genotypic, phenotypic and/or functional diversity to the clade. The study presents a possible valuable contribution towards the conservation of this impressive species. In particular, I see the quantification of possible suitable habitat of high value for conservation action plans. To this end, authors though should extent their recommendations to describe in a more specific way actions for the conservation of the Chinese monal based on the results of their study. Apart from its general structure, the manuscript would benefit from streamlining and an extensive language editing. While most of the English is ok, the writing definitely should be improved as the text is rather hard to read at some parts. Consultation of a native colleague with also good writing skills is recommended. Overall, this was a very interesting manuscript. My specific comments are annotated on the text, which mainly include a few suggestions to improve flow and readability, and some considerations for the Discussion. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Predicting suitable habitat of the Chinese monal (Lophophorus lhuysii) using ecological niche modeling in the Qionglai Mountains, China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3477v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 22, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The raw data are supplied but Supplementary Table 1 should state which of the 98 occurrence records were removed to avoid overfitting and which are the 70 records that were used for niche modeling. English language is not perfect. At several places, articles are missing or other smaller grammatical mistakes make the text more difficult to understand. For example, line 129 change 'integrated' to 'integrating'. Line 134: remove 'method'. Line 150: change 'max' to 'maximum'. Line 226: 'represent' should be changed to 'represents'. Line 228: Change 'Suitability were constrained' to 'suitability was constrained'. Line 266-67 change 'a large portion'...'are unprotected' to ...'is unprotected'.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors identify very well the knowledge gap that this study aims to fill. The identification of the most important environmental factors is unclear. Variables were removed with contribution <0.1% or correlation >0.7 with the help of an R package but whether removal of the variables increased or decreased model performance is not stated. Model performance is only evaluated for the minimum set of independent, variables with a model contribution >1%. This is the major weakness of the manuscript. To me it is not clear why the selected variables are those that best predict habitat suitability.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
A conclusion section is missing. I would recommend the authors to include one. In my opinion, predictions for suitable habitat from niche model predictions are not sufficient to alter the location of conservation areas. The suitability of habitats that appear suitable but are not yet under protection should first be confirmed by field studies.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The study presents the results of primary scientific research. The authors develop an ecological niche model for the Chinese monal in order to identify whether protected areas in the Qionglai Mountains overlap with regions of highest habitat sutiability. My major two criticisms are: 1) It remains unclear to me why the selected variables are the ones that best represent habitat suitability (see below). 2) The suggestion to shift protection areas based on a single niche modeling study is for me an over-interpretation of the data. That the predicted habitat is indeed suitable should be first confirmed by targeted field observations. On the map (Figure 1) it appears that most sampling locations were collected in proximity to roads. I would expect that this would create a sampling bias towards more easily accessible sites (e.g. roads). The authors should discuss why the inverse relation (increasing habitat suitability with increasing distance from roads) was found in the niche model predictions. Why are only 4 of the 8 important variables shown in Fig. 2? Three of them had over 10% relative contribution to the habitat suitability of the Chinese monal. Why is the fourth one shown but not the other six? The text describing the study area is difficult to follow without figure. I would recommend to refer to Fig. 1 early in this paragraph (for example line 78). Line 190: ''unrelated' should be changed to 'not significantly correlated' and 'relatively important' should be also specified in more detail (importance >1%). Line 204-205: 'Three predictors'...'appearing to have more useful information by themselves' is very vague. Should be better changed to something like: 'appear to better discriminate suitable from non-suitable habitat as compared with the other variables'. Line 218: Start sentence with the word 'Ten' instead of the number '10'. Line 274-275: It is unclear to me what 'can communicate by dispersing' means. I guess it doesn't refer to vocal or visual communication but to genetic exchange? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Predicting suitable habitat of the Chinese monal (Lophophorus lhuysii) using ecological niche modeling in the Qionglai Mountains, China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3477v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 1, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
