Review History for Phenotypic characterization of patients with deletions in the 3’-flanking SHOX region [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Phenotypic characterization of patients with deletions in the 3’-flanking SHOX region To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 21st, 2012 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 22nd, 2012. The first revision was submitted on January 17th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 18th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
David Meyre
·
Jan 18, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors carefully took into account the reviewer's comments and significantly improved the manuscript. The current version of the article is suitable for publication in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 17, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Meyre
·
Dec 22, 2012
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear authors, Thank you to submit this interesting paper to PeerJ. Please revise the article taking into account the inspired suggestions of the reviewers. The paper can be simplified and significantly shortened. Best regards, David Meyre
label_author_1
Gudrun Rappold ·
Dec 21, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_1
See General Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
See General Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See General Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The present study by Sarina Kant et al analysed deletion sizes within the pseudoautosomal region in 28 families with Leri-Weill dyschondrosteosis (LWD), with the prior information that the SHOX gene, which normally causes this disorder, was not affected. They found in roughly two-thirds of their analysed cases a small recurrent deletion of 47kb, thus confirming previous results by Benito-Sanz et al, 2012. Genotype- phenotype comparison then revealed that patients with this small deletion were not significantly different than those with a large deletion. Specific comments: 1.In the Introduction the authors state that 15% of LWD can be explained by enhancer deletions outside the SHOX gene (this reference relates to the Benito-Sanz et al 2012 paper, not the 2005 paper). Chen et al, 2009, however, found that enhancer deletions are present in 45% of patients with LWD. 2.Page 3: Rosilio et al 2012 reported a higher percentage of downstream deletions in ISS patients compared to LWD patients, while Chen et al , 2009 reported a higher percentage of downstream deletions in LWD patients compared to ISS patients. Therefore , genotype-phenotype correlations seem not obvious. 3.Page 4 :delete „small“ mutations 4.Discussion: Small deletions have been also previously been detected in 4/5 patients with ISS and SHOX downstream deletions and 1/2 patients with SHOX downstream deletions (Figure 2; Chen et al, 2009), but their exact size was not determined in detail 5.Page 9, line 170, … with a deletion of the downstream enhancer interval 6.Figure 1 could be improved by also indicating the enhancer intervals as published by Sabherwal et al, 2007 Cite this review as
Rappold G ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Phenotypic characterization of patients with deletions in the 3’-flanking SHOX region (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.35v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 18, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This article describes the clinical characterization of 23 index patients and 21 relatives with PAR1 deletions located downstream of SHOX, comparing those with a large downstream deletion and those with a recently described 47.5kb deletion. This is an interesting article with valuable clinical evaluation but: 1) the manuscript is too long with a large degree of repetition between the introduction and the discussion, and some discussion points are also made in the results section; 2) the article is not fluid to read. Thus, I would suggest a reduction in length and improvement in the writing style would greatly aid the fluidity of the article. Major points Table 1: this table is not clearly described and the numbers do not add up, for example, 12 male patients, 12 have Madelung deformity and 5 do not. These table row headings should be clearly written and the data revised. Line 45: They state “Benito-Sanz et al reported 12 families with short stature and/or Madelung deformity with variable severity, without further details about height SDS. This isn´t strictly correct as the height SDS´s are listed in Table 1 and range from -4.6 to 0.8 SDS. Lines 50 and 169: Caution must also be undertaken with the data reported by Rosilio et al, 2012. In this study, they included 140 children from a previous study (Huber et al, 2006), 56 dyschondrosteosis and 84 ISS. a) The LWD/ISS classification was determined by clinical examination and did not include a routine wrist radiography to determine if they had signs of the Madelung deformity. They only undertook this after the post-genetic analysis and found that 6 of the 18 ISS patients with SHOX defects actually had a Madelung deformity and thus should have been classified as LWD. b) They identified a total of 10 large deletions using microsatellite marker and SNP analysis. The microsatellite markers were not informative at the 5´ deletion extensions which were within SHOX thus these patients may actually have deletions that include SHOX and thus the clinical evaluation of the SHOX deletions v downstream deletions may have been different. c) They also identified a common downstream 10.5 kb deletion in their patients, which was subsequently characterized and reported to be a non-pathogenic CNV (Benito-Sanz, Am J Med Genet 2011). Thus, the conclusions stated in this manuscript from this article have to be taken with caution. Line 112: Of the 28 families analyzed, 19 index cases had the recurrent 47.5kb downstream deletion whilst 10 index cases (from 9 families) had a larger deletion. Clinical data was available for statistical assessment for a total of 44 individuals from 23 families but the deletion type that these clinically evaluated individuals/families had was not described (line 112). This data is only visible in Figure 2 (25 with the 47.5 kb deletion and 19 with other downstream deletions), but for clarity it should also be included in the text. Minor points Line 19: Haploinsuficiency is of a protein not of a gene thus it should be written: “haploinsufficiency of SHOX (not italics)” rather than “haploinsufficiency of SHOX (italics)” throughout the manuscript. Line 19-20: They state that 60-70% of cases are due to intragenic deletions or mutations but they need to include intragenic SHOX duplications. Line 31-33: They describe a deletion in the enhancer region upstream of SHOX – they should state that it was in a patient with ISS not LWD. Line 123 and 176: I don´t think it is now remarkable that not all index patients had short stature. This has been reported numerous times and is now an accepted fact in the clinical characteristics of LWD. These sentences need to be modified. Line 123: This paragraph is more discussion than results. Results: When describing which MLPA probes are deleted they should write “PAR1 probes L05096-L05104 inclusive”. Line 115 they should use “47.5 kb deletion” rather than deletions. Line 116, the grammar needs to be corrected from “0.5 SD less short” to “0.5 SDS shorter”. Line 140: “However, we have now shown that these deletions (i.e. 47.5 kb deletion) comprise the major part of our patient cohort”. In the manuscript they state that during the same time period they detected: 43 SHOX deletions, 22 point mutations/small insertions or deletions in SHOX, 5 SHOX duplications and 29 downstream deletions (of which 19 had this 47.5 kb deletion). Thus, this statement is confusing because more SHOX deletions have been identified than this downstream 47.5 kb deletion Line 156: The grammar needs to be corrected: “mean height SDS is slightly taller in relatives” to “slightly higher” Line 188-190: the data presented in this manuscript does indeed support the pathogenicity of the 47.5kb deletion but it does not confirm that an important enhancer region is located within the deletion interval as no functional data is presented. The final summary needs to be reworded. There are many citations that are incorrectly cited or older citations are not included. For example: Line 24: Rao et al, 1997 detected pseudoautosomal pattern of inheritance for ISS and Turner syndrome but not LWD. They then cite Kant et al, 2011 and Evers et al, 2011 but there are earlier articles that should be cited. Lines 123 and 176: they cite that not all index patients had short stature, which was also noticed in the study by Salmon-Musial et al 2011. This has been observed in previous studies. Fig 1: I would remove the critical deletion interval reported by Benito-Sanz et al, because this plays no role in this work. What is important is that the four downstream enhancers are indicated in the figure so that you can see how many and which enhancers are deleted in the three detected deletions.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The design is well set out and evaluated correctly.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Phenotypic characterization of patients with deletions in the 3’-flanking SHOX region (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.35v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 21, 2012 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
