Review History for Penetrance of symbiont-mediated parthenogenesis is driven by reproductive rate in a parasitoid wasp [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Penetrance of symbiont-mediated parthenogenesis is driven by reproductive rate in a parasitoid wasp To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 21st, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 12th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 29th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 6th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Jun 6, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Congratulations on the acceptance of your manuscript! It will be a great contribution to the field. Great job on the revision. Thanks for being patient with the review process, and for choosing to publish with PeerJ. I hope we will see more of your work submitted to us in the future. Best, -joe
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 29, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
May 12, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Drs. Lindsey and Stouthamer: I have now received three reviews of your manuscript “Penetrance of symbiont-mediated parthenogenesis is driven by reproductive rate in a parasitoid wasp”. I am happy to convey to you that all three reviews were very favorable. Congratulations! Before we can officially accept your work for publication in PeerJ, there are suggestions from all three reviewers that I would like to see you entertain. In particular, Reviewer 2 has made substantial comments and suggestions…please take these seriously. Please address Reviewer 1’s concerns with the statistical analysis. Also, please modify Figure 1 as suggested by Reviewer 3. All of the reviewers’ concerns should be addressed in your response letter, and I believe that this will greatly improve your manuscript. Good luck with your revision, I look forward to seeing it. -Joe
label_author_1
Ken Kraaijeveld ·
May 6, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
A well-written contribution, with nice figures. Some minor comments: line 42-46. Explanation of CI not relevant for this paper line 96. "improve female-biased sex ratios" sounds strange. Why is a more female-biased sex ratio "better"? More neutral wording would be better. line 147. "each" should be "either" The Tulgetske GM. 2010. reference is incomplete.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
It would have been nice to see the depletion in time, by determining titres at several timepoints for each of the treatments. Statistics: I am not familiar with the permutational multivariate approach taken. Please add a sentence explaining its advantage over the more traditional binomial GLM. Does it take brood size into account when assessing sex ratio?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Line 205-207 and 223. It is good practise to discuss significant interaction effects first, before interpreting the effects of individual factors. line 225-228. This statement is not supported by the lack of an interaction effect on sex ratio (line 220).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
A well-conducted study that strongly indicates that the level of PI is determined by Wolbachia titre and that Wolbachia titre is affected by reproductive output. It would be interesting to see follow-up work that characterizes these naturally produced males further in terms of fertility, ploidy and perhaps any latent ability to induce CI. Cite this review as
Kraaijeveld K ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Penetrance of symbiont-mediated parthenogenesis is driven by reproductive rate in a parasitoid wasp (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3505v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 6, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Specific suggestions for improving clarity, context and referencing are provided in attached review.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors are encouraged to speculate more, as doing so is well-substantiated by existing context of the literature, and will further connect readers to the full implications of the study. (Specific suggestions provided in attached review.)
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Please see attached review. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Penetrance of symbiont-mediated parthenogenesis is driven by reproductive rate in a parasitoid wasp (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3505v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
May 10, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript is well written, the figures are easily interpreted, and the statistical analysis and reporting are complete.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research question is well defined and the experiments are designed to test the hypothesis that restriction of host eggs for oviposition will sustain female-based sex ratios.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data is robust with adequate replication. The discussion assesses each result with adequate depth, and acknowledges alternative arguments which were not addressed directly in the experiments. The authors discuss the ecological significance of the results, and propose mechanisms which may result in effective parthenogenesis induction.
Comments for the author
I would suggest adding a separate experimental design figure for the second trial or amending figure 1 to include the second treatment of the second trial. Figure 1 is well designed and a similar figure for the second trial will aid in clarity. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Penetrance of symbiont-mediated parthenogenesis is driven by reproductive rate in a parasitoid wasp (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3505v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 21, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
