Review History for Can head louse repellents really work? Field studies of piperonal 2% spray [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Can head louse repellents really work? Field studies of piperonal 2% spray To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 17th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 13th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on March 18th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 28th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Nigel Andrew
·
Mar 28, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am happy with your responses to the issues raised, and it can now head out for publicaiton
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 18, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Nigel Andrew
·
Feb 13, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
A range of major issues need to be resolved before the manuscript is ready for publication. In the statistical analysis section Line 151. This is the first time we hear of the sponsor BIOS – and it seems that they have all the data? It is not clear as to what data was collected by the authors and what was collected by BIOS – this needs to be clarified. I am very concerned that the data you are showing here is not raw data. Can the data that was used be made accessible – ie on Figshare? Your statistical methods are generally quite unusual – can you provide references for your statistical methods please. Other comments l ine 87/88 reference for the OECD guidelines needed Line 108 – Objectives should be in the introduction Line 167 – 203. This is all methodology. Not results. Line 206 – ‘surprisingly low’. Is this result statistically significant or just an observation? There is no data to back this statement up – Line 215. There is no mention in the methods of the use of a chi-sq test. Your results need to reflect the methods you used. This is also relevant for other parts of your results Line 231 – 235 – Methods Line 237 - a ‘slight non-significant trend’ with a p-value of 0.4368! That is not correct! Line 240 – ‘ marginally increased difference’ – with a p-value of 0.3323. Again are you really sure what you are saying here? Adverse events section – again this is not results – this is methods Line 265 – 272. There is no data of references to back up this point. It is all descriptive notetaking. re: clinical trial or not - really from the methods it is very hard to tell what data was actually collected. Clearer methods are required to make a determination on this. Please address Reviewer 2's comments.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 10, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The paper can be accepted as it is. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Can head louse repellents really work? Field studies of piperonal 2% spray (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.351v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 24, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall: Reinfection is thought to be a significant pediculosis issue and so it was nice to see some old data on the topic being submitted to add more evidence to the pool.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Due to the lack of empirical data on reinfection, this paper contains results worthy of publication despite there being design flaws, such as the lack of demographics associated with the data and lack of consistently applied methodology between studies and between study participants. Other limitations that should be identified include the lice detection and elimination methods which are known not to be accurate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Introduction P1: Another reason is that it is easy to miss a recent infection because it is hard to detect lice and no few eggs are present. P2: It has already been shown that heavy oils are not a deterrent to head lice transmission – see Canyon et al. Int J Dermatol 2007;46:422-426. You actually refer to this in Discussion P6. Methods P2: What date were data collected? P2: How was the infection rate of close to 100% ascertained? P3: What date were data collected? P3: Clarify which species was involved with the resistance studies. P3: Why was an average infection rate provided for only “some” schools and not all schools assessed? P3: What was the nature of the information on reinfection and from how many sources (parents?) did it originate? P4: Given that plastic comb is not a great way to detect an infection, the number of lice per head on participants must have been considerably higher than average – true? P13: The dose must have varied considerably due to 5-25 sprays being administered per head – comment? P14: Provide reference for the study finding that vanillin was not repellent. P15: Provide a reference to show that the use of carbaril 1% actually eliminates 100% of all lice. How was the elimination of lice confirmed? The only reliable method is combing with conditioner to see if eggs or lice remain. P18: The paragraph on objectives does not belong in the methods section and should be moved to the end of the introduction. P20: Since the dates of data collection were not supplied it is not possible to determine the accuracy of the statement that “No studies had ever been conducted of incidence of head lice infestation…”. P21: Again, how was the 100% infection rate confirmed or estimated? P21: Recruitment does not equate to reinfection risk – rewrite. P21: Provide numbers of study participants. P22: To what groups are you referring? P28-29: Presumably you are talking about the Bangladesh data in this and the next paragraphs? Results P1: The selection of children did not sound random – comment? P12: The dose is critical so this lack of design integrity is a major flaw in the study design – there is no way to know if reinfection occurred on heads that were sprayed more or less. Discussion P1: We know that reentry to school after a break is correlated with a higher occurrence of pediculosis – see publications by Speare et al on school programs. P3: DEET’s low efficacy against lice – cite published data when it exists not unpublished data (Canyon et al. Int J Dermatol 2007;46:422-426) P4: 10% prevalence is a global average (see Gratz) which is not low, but expected. P4: Disagree – since the bulk of infections involve up to ten lice per head, a repellent is completely useless if it is not 100% effective. Even the passage of a single fertilized female would rapidly result in a new outbreak on a head. Consumer satisfaction is irrelevant because they often even fail to detect infections. P5: First sentence is not accurate – the global infection rate is around 10% in most schools rising to much higher rates and lower rates in pockets. P6: Refer to more up to date descriptions of repellence in Canyon et al. Int J Dermatol 2007;46:422-426 P7: See Canyon et al in J Investigative Dermatol 2002; 119(3): 629-631 for a more evidence-based statement on the speed of transmission
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Writing: Grammar requires improvement throughout. While I used to use the words “infested” and “reinfestation”, I have come to see that they have negative connotations and that “infection” and “reinfection” are preferable since we are talking about pediculosis which is a disease. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Can head louse repellents really work? Field studies of piperonal 2% spray (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.351v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 17, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
