Review History for Recombinant expression in E. coli of human FGFR2 with its transmembrane and extracellular domains [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Recombinant expression in E. coli of human FGFR2 with its transmembrane and extracellular domains To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 9th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 27th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 30th, 2017 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 7th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Xiaohui Wang
·
Jun 7, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I recommend "Accept" for the revised manuscript entitled "Recombinant expression in E. coli of human FGFR2 with its transmembrane and extracellular domains"
label_author_1
Jörg Labahn ·
Jun 2, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Cite this review as
Labahn J ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Recombinant expression in E. coli of human FGFR2 with its transmembrane and extracellular domains (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3512v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 30, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Xiaohui Wang
·
Mar 27, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
please analyse and discuss the problems during FGFR proteins expressed in E. coli
label_author_2
Jörg Labahn ·
Mar 17, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Clear and unambiguous, professional English is used. p30 line 20 ff has the verb follow in 3 subsequent sentences. 11 references are provided which is sufficient to introduce the biological background and context of FGFR Proteins. The topic of the paper, namely how to overcome the problem of recombinant expression and subsequent purification is not sufficiently represented (1 citation). The article structure, figs and tables are in accordance with the requirements of the subject. The research hypothesis that FGFR Proteins can be expressed recombinantly in E. coli was verfied. The problems are described but not analyzed.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The expression and purification of mammalian and membrane proteins is original, primary research within the aims and scope of the journal. It is stated that the presented research is required to overcome the knowledge gap with respect to structual biology, but not with respect to the actual work: The observed fragmentation of the expression construct was not analyzed with regard to the FGFRs. Specifically, a mass spectrometry of the isolated product or an other acessment of the completeness of the isolated product is missing. Some further details with regard to replication are missing: p17 line 15: type of SEC column p10 line 12: the rotor type or g-force instead of rpm The investigation was performed with standard methods that are well established.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The observed fragmentation was not analysed with regard to is relevance for the product. The integrity of the product is assumed based on its capability to bind heparin. The conclusions are well stated, link to the research question and the results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The problem of fragmentation to the identity of the isolated product is serious, especially if structural analysis is intended. It is not clear if the protein in Fig 4 shows as a double band. Cite this review as
Labahn J ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Recombinant expression in E. coli of human FGFR2 with its transmembrane and extracellular domains (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3512v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Wayne Curtis ·
Mar 26, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Writing quality: The manuscript English is generally well written and clear. Italicize E. coli and in vitro throughout the text. Figure & Table Quality: A comment in Table 1 on providing the reference number from bp=0 as it relates to the base pair ranges in the constructs would be helpful. A reference to figure 2 lanes in the text would be particularly appropriate for the “most promising” constructs (P10,L12). Normally I would recommend colored boxes on gel by comparison to side-bar notations. Raw Data: An explicit reporting of protein expression and subsequent yield estimates in purification would be a positive addition to the manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Journal Scope: The manuscript is in the “Biological Sciences” scope of the journal. Relevance: The use of Lemo21 line and eventual focus on inclusion body refolding is an inconsistency that should be discussed as it influences interpretation of the significance of results (focused on making progress towards functional expression). A clarification on use of Lemo21 cells which is designed to avoid inclusion body formation though rhamnose modulated expression of T7 RNA polymerase inhibitor (Lysy). In this context, the level of rhamnose should be specified as it is not a standard ingredient of the TB (Terrific Broth) media used in this work. Rigorous execution: Considerable effort is made starting with a variety of expression constructs. This approach then focusing down on the best candidates is a strong approach; though there is little to no discussion on what was learned from this approach. Methods Description: Methods related to cell lysis are presented in three different methods sections. Clarify small scale, large scale and if the detergent extraction procedure is independent or supplemental to the preceding lysis procedure (p.7). Details of sonification intensity, configuration, equipment would be useful to reproduce results. The final methods description for Functional testing ends with in inadequately rationalized description (P9/10). Two sentences in a row “This was followed”, with the final sentence not providing rationale for why SEC is used. An ending such as “to assess bound / unbound FGF ligand, dimers … ?” would provide a much better transition to results.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Conclusions appropriate: Suggest improving first sentence of conclusions to read: “Our results present progress toward expression partially functional” The final sentence of the conclusions is a weak / ambiguous ending: “The potential role of the TM merits further investigation”. Is this a suggestion to remove the transmembrane domain to study binding characteristics. Give the moderate success with considerable effort at expressing this protein in E. coli, it would seem to be worth noting (either as conclusion or background) the potential value of pursuing alternative expression platforms that are more specifically developed for trans-membrane protein expression (e.g. Rhodobacter www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26008117, or cell-free systems link.springer.com/protocol/10.1007/978-1-60761-344-2_11 Speculation identified: The role of TM is implicitly speculated in conclusions, and should be addressed in the context of comment above.
Comments for the author
As other work has been done with expression with this protein, it would seem appropriate to provide some reference to that work in the DISCUSSION to build upon the background in which other work is noted. Suggested edits: P4,L8: change “The strongest data supporting or invalidationg” to “Resolving different” P.6,L5: space before units “mM”. P9,L8: Change “Determination of success was” to “Successful”; suggest sentence structure correction to semi-colon separating the to method and clarification “Western blot analysis; instead of using ...”; insert verb to read “was confirmed by SDS-Page”. P9,L17: Move the ending preposition “to equilibrate column” to replace the non-description start of the sentence “First,” ; delete the extra “onto the column”. P11,L13: replace “following” with “subsequent” P14,L18: replace “not capable” with “rendering it incapable” Cite this review as
Curtis W ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Recombinant expression in E. coli of human FGFR2 with its transmembrane and extracellular domains (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3512v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 9, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
