Review History for The difference in expression of long noncoding RNAs in rat semen induced by high-fat diet was associated with metabolic pathways [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The difference in expression of long noncoding RNAs in rat semen induced by high-fat diet was associated with metabolic pathways To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 9th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 9th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on May 27th, 2017 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 8th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tadashi Yamamoto
·
Jun 8, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your manuscript is now accepted for publication. Although it is not mandatory, I appreciate it if you could include your response to the reviewer's minor comments in your final manuscript. Best, Tadasih
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
May 29, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors addressed most of the reviewers’ concerns by adding additional data and modifying the text. The manuscript has been significantly improved. I have only fairly minor comments to improve the manuscript. 1.Background about the lncRNA-mRNA network should be added into the introduction to understand significance of the network analysis.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1.The author answered our concern about the way to select five lncRNAs. However, there is a discrepancy between the text and the point-by-point responses. Did the author selected 5 lncRNAs randomly, according to the fold change values and the molecular functions, or due to the limitations of research funding?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comment. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "The difference in expression of long noncoding RNAs in rat semen induced by high-fat diet was associated with metabolic pathways (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3518v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 27, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tadashi Yamamoto
·
Apr 9, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As the two reviewers commented, the manuscript is immature and contains many typos. Please revise the manuscript following all suggestions given by the reviewers.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 12, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this manuscript, An et al aimed to correlate expression changes in lncRNA with those in mRNA in spermatozoa of obese rats induced by HFD in order to understand a mechanism by which obesity is a risk factor for male infertility. The authors isolated RNA from sperm supernatant fluid of obese and control rats, followed by analyses of microarrays and bioinformatics. Through the lncRNA-mRNA co-expression network analysis, the authors aimed to understand the roles of some lncRNA whose expression levels were changed in the obese condition. While this attempt is of interest, there are multiple technical and biological issues that make the data difficult to interpret properly.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1.While the authors stated that HFD-induced obese rates were used for the analysis, the rats did not show typical symptoms of obesity such as hyperlipidemia except for slight induction of fasting blood glucose levels. Did these rats actually become obese compared to their controls? Body weight information of each mouse should be included in the manuscript (e.g., Fig.1 and S1) to advocate your animal model as a HFD-induced obesity. What is a formula of normal diet used as a control? 2.In this study, spermatozoa were placed in the cultures of preheated human tubal and centrifuged to collect the supernatant fluid. This procedure needs to be described in more detail. In this procedure, functional sperms can be collected, however, damaged and motionless sperm may not. Obesity is associated with hypogonadism, impaired spermatogenesis, and sperm functions. Therefore, the procedure may result in technical biases of sperm collection in this study. What are fundamentals of the collected sperm, e.g, number, activity, and shape, used for RNA analysis? If there is a bias of sperm collection, it certainly affects lncRNA and mRNA expression patterns and the lncRNA-mRNA network analysis.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
1.The authors selected 5 out of 973 lncRNAs for q-PCR assay to verify the microarray data. Even if there are in good consistency between q-PCR and microarray data with the sample size, it is scientifically difficult and inappropriate to state that the q-PCR results verify the veracity of microarray data results due to the smaller sample power. In addition, there is no statistic analysis in Figure 5 and CUST_5105 and 6638 show different trends of expression pattern between q-PCR and microarray data. 2.Regarding Figure 6, it is difficult to interpret and understand the data. There are only limited information about a purpose of this analysis and how this was done. While there are some descriptions about your interpretation in “Discussion,” it still leaves ambiguities in interpreting the results. For instance, the authors state that “CUST_5105_PI428311958 (fold change: 5.87) microarray was predicted to act both in cis (Ccnd2) and in trans (Ccnd2) (Supplementary Data Table S6, S7)” in line 250. However, it is difficult for reviews/readers to find such a correlation in the vast supplementary data sets.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall, due to uncertainty of the experimental conditions, I find this very confusing and I am afraid that the readers will find it confusing as well. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "The difference in expression of long noncoding RNAs in rat semen induced by high-fat diet was associated with metabolic pathways (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3518v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 8, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The English language should be improved, and the manuscript, in which a lot of typos and grammar mistakes are found, must be sent to the editing services before being published. In addition, some abbreviations, such as BP, CC, MF, SD, and DEGs, are not explained. Regarding to the LncRNA-mRNA co-expression network analysis, it would be necessary to describe in details what lncRNA-mRNA network means. What are cic- and trans-targeted mRNAs? To understand the network analysis well, a description about the mechanism how lncRNAs control gene expression via epigenetic, transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation would be included in the Introduction and Result sections.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
In the Bioinformatical analysis of microarray data, mRNA that have low intensities are defined as absences, but mRNAs having low intensities seem to be still shown in Figure 2. How many mRNAs are present? It is necessary to describe more detailed method of the analysis. In line 80, to validate the effect of high-fat diet feeding, could you show body weight data? In line 141, would you describe how many probes are put for lncRNAs and mRNA in the chip and how many lncRNAs and mRNAs are present in this tissue? In Figure 3C, it is difficult to see GO annotations. Could you enlarge the font size? In Figure 5C, error bars from the triplicates can be added to bar graphs. Could you explain why the 5 lncRNAs are selected for the qPCR and network analyses. In Tables 2 and 3, several probes are identified as NA. What does NA mean? These NA genes should be excluded for the subsequent analyses. It would be interesting to compare the data between obese rats and mice from data published by the authors. It would be necessary to see whether feeding of high-fat diet affects spermatogenesis and fertility, such as sperm volume, sperm concentration, activity of sperm, histology of testis, etc.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Authors previously provided the expression profiles from diabetec mice sperm. It is necessary to add the rationale why obese rats are used. The authors concluded that “GO term enrichment analysis showed that the most highly enriched in function is related to negative regulation of reproduction process”. However, the Figure 3 identifies single-organism process, developmental process, sulfur compound binding and stem cell development. It would be necessary to change the conclusion.
Comments for the author
The manuscript by An and colleagues shows the expression profiles of lncRNAs and mRNAs from died-induced obese rats, using microarray. Although this group have previously provided the information from obese mice, the expression profiles of obese rats have not been previously investigated. Additional analyses and experiments would help to strength this study. The English language should be improved and the manuscript must be sent for the editing services to correct many typos and grammar mistakes. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "The difference in expression of long noncoding RNAs in rat semen induced by high-fat diet was associated with metabolic pathways (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3518v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 9, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
