Review History for A new terrestrial snail species (Gastropoda: Bulimulidae) from the Región de Antofagasta, northern Chile [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A new terrestrial snail species (Gastropoda: Bulimulidae) from the Región de Antofagasta, northern Chile To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 15th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 26th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on June 13th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 13th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Rudiger Bieler
·
Jun 13, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your revised manuscript. I am satisfied with your response to the referee comments, and am now happy to move this forward into production.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 13, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Rudiger Bieler
·
May 26, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Your manuscript has been read by two reviewers who recommend some – mostly minor – additions and modifications. I agree with their assessments. Please provide a more detailed comparison and discussion of morphological characters (be more specific than merely stating that the protoconch is “slightly different” or that the shells are “stouter”). Add a more extensive discussion why this could not be a member of Kuscheliana (and perhaps, as suggested by one of the reviewers, compare it also to Drymaeus). Consider adding a comparative table of characters if that would help with making the case. Add an illustration of the columellar fold if that is indeed an important distinguishing character. Also, I suggest making it clearer up front (already in the Abstract) that this study is based on empty shells alone. When I started reading the manuscript, I was wondering about molecular approaches -- until I learned (in the Material & Methods section) that this would not be possible. I noticed a few oddities in the text (such as “knowledge on its diversity”) and the reviewers pointed out a few others. Please have the manuscript read by a native English speaker. Unfortunately, PeerJ cannot offer copyediting services.
label_author_1
Frank Koehler ·
May 20, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript contains the description of a new species of land snails from northern Chile. Use of English language is sufficient; I suggested some corrections where considered useful or necessary. Please refrain from using terms, such as "unusual" or "conspicuous" lightly, unless the species is indeed unusual. I don't see what makes the present species 'unusual'. If it is, please explain. Relevant literature is cited.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methods used are basic but appropriate; described with sufficient detail. In your taxonomic part, under genus please provide a generic diagnosis, especially with regard to how differentiate Scutalus from Kuschelenia. You need to provide sufficient evidence for placement in the former and not the latter given the large disjunction in the distribution of Scutalus that your work proposes. At present you only allude to the fact that Scutalus species are found at low elevations, while Kuschelenia species are found at high elevations. That makes me wonder, why cant the new species just be a lowland form of Kuschelenia?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The novelt of the species seems plausible given the evidence put forward. However, the comparison with already known species of this genus could have been a little more transparent and 'objective'. Instead of saying 'all other species of the genus are stouter and cannot be mistaken with the new species'. Its nice that you are confident, but it would be more scientific if you quantify the differences or at least document them instead of leaving the reader in a situation of "trust me, I know it". One could have used measurements to qualify how much stouter they are or photographs to document the differences, etc. at least literature references to descriptions of other species. May I comment that one needs to be careful with using shell characters in species that inhabit extreme habitats. There are ample of examples from other land snails that under extreme conditions shell characters may vary even within a species, particularly shell shape and size, as they are under strong local selection. A good example is the study of Rhagada species from Rosemary Island (Australia), where extreme shell forms are likely expressed by the same species along a very steep ecological gradient on very narrow geographical scales. Hence, just that a snail differs in shell shape or size is a very poor indicator for its distinctiveness of already names species. I am only convinced that this is likely a new species because it appears to be very isolated from its congeners.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Avoid arm waiving. Be concise and use data instead of personal experience to underpin the results of your work. Please refer to the annotations in the text for further comments. I wonder whether you should name the new species 'changos' (for the people), not just 'chango' (for one person?) Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Koehler F ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "A new terrestrial snail species (Gastropoda: Bulimulidae) from the Región de Antofagasta, northern Chile (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3538v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Igor Muratov ·
May 26, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Some corrections in English grammar and style are needed. Please see attached PDF.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Coordinates for the type locality are highly inaccurate. More than 1300 meters error. Correct coordinates are: 24° 55.74'S; 70° 30.05'W.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Would it be possible to compare proposed new species with Drymaeus in this publication? Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Muratov I ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "A new terrestrial snail species (Gastropoda: Bulimulidae) from the Región de Antofagasta, northern Chile (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3538v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 15, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
