Review History for A longitudinal study of the diabetic skin and wound microbiome [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A longitudinal study of the diabetic skin and wound microbiome To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 3rd, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 11th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on June 13th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 14th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Camillo Rosano
·
Jun 14, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for submitting an amended version of your paper. I have checked the revision against the review comments and I am pleased to inform you that your work is accepted for publication within PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 13, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Camillo Rosano
·
May 11, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Catherine, Thank you for submitting your paper with PeerJ. We received the comments from the referees and these follow on this mail. I am glad to tell you that both the referees support the publication of the paper although there are some comments that require your attention. I would ask you to revise your manuscript accordingly: I expect a suitable revised manuscript to be accepted for publications. Please be sure to address all the points in full. I am looking forward to receiving your amended version, my best regards
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 26, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1.Some relevant literature is either not cited or mis-interpretted. In the discussion, the Wolcott 2016 WRR paper is referred to as not detecting correlations between specific taxa and wound healing. Wolcott et al did not collect outcome data in this study. The authors do not cite a recently published paper that did find relationships between the wound microbiome and outcome (Loesche et al 2017 Journal of Investigative Dermatology). This was also a longitudinal study of DFU microbiome and seems to be the most relevant for the authors to compare their findings. 2.Another misinterpretation/overgeneralization is in the discussion when considering diversity and “health”. It is definitely not an absolute that diversity = health state. Diverse vaginal microbial communities are pretty much synonymous with disease state. Similarly, the extensive skin microbiome literature shows that sebaceous skin sites lack diversity—that does not mean that they are unhealthy but rather are selected for in the microenvironment. 3.Since the cohort is so small, the authors should show data for all subjects in Figures 3 and 5. This would increase the informativeness of the figures. Stacked bar charts are a poor way to represent this data since variability is not captured. 4.The authors should avoid the use of the label “diabetics”. “Persons with diabetes” is a more appropriate practice.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1.Essential control data are missing. The sequencing data on the negative control swabs are not shown/reported. What taxa are present in those swabs? There should also be a control where the contamination in the Prontosan wound cleansing solution is reported. Another essential but missing control is a positive control (for example a mock community) to assess variability between sequencing runs. 2.All analysis shown is at the OTU level. It would be worthwhile to analyze data at the phylotype/taxonomy level. Sequencing error, especially in short reads like V4, can inflate OTU counts and diversity. 3.Were singleton OTUs removed? 4.The authors state themselves that the V4 region is poor at speciating Staph. Why do they include species-level data then when reporting relative abundances? This is misleading if the classifications cannot be confidently assigned. 5.The authors should report what type of DFU were in the cohort: Neuropathic? Ischemic? Characteristics such as wound location, wound size, wound depth should also be reported and controlled for in the analysis where appropriate since these variables have previously been shown to associate with wound microbiota. 6.How were the DFUs treated other than debridement and washing? Offloading? Topicals? Dressings? Did they all receive the same treatment?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The validity of the findings as they stand is questionable. To increase the validity, the authors should: 1.Report control data (see Experimental Design section, point 1) 2.Control for wound variables (see Experimental Design section, point 4) 3.Line 279-281: This statement is seemingly false just looking at Figure 3. Clearly Moraxellaceae, Micrococcaceae, and Enterobacteraceae are more abundant than Corynebacterium. Actinobacteria is a phylum and as such is not even represented in Figure 3 (though Corynebacterium is an Actinobacteria).
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "A longitudinal study of the diabetic skin and wound microbiome (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3543v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 10, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The language used throughout is professional and without major errors. However, the references to primary literature are lacking. While the authors make reference to studies on diabetic versus healthy skin they have only selectively chosen diabetic foot ulcers to reference. There have been numerous studies published that are relevant to this paper and should be sufficiently discussed, including Loesche et al. 2016. JID, Gardner et al. 2013. Diabetes, Smith et al. 2016. BMC Microbiology; Price et al. 2009. PloS One etc.).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
-L254 you state that the negative control swabs did not yield PCR products but on L266 you say that subsampling at 30000 was chosen because of the number of reads obtained from negative controls. Please clarify. -Could you please clarify how the percent variance for diabetes vs. control and inter-individual differences was calculated in the methods? This is interesting but not is what is presented in Figure 2, so please just clarify how it was calculated. -Could you also clarify in the methods how the longitudinal stability metric was calculated (I am assuming it is the unifrac distance calculated between samples from a single patient at different timepoints but this is not defined in the methods).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
-The findings would be better presented discussed in the context of the literature on the microbiome of diabetic foot ulcers. The one paper cited (Wolcott et al. 2016) was mixed etiology. -The authors cite Meisel et al. 2016 a limitation to speciating Staphlyococcal spp. however that paper also says that the 16S V4 region misses Propionibacterium spp. The authors should also discuss this and the potential implications of missing Propionibacterium from their analysis as it is a normal part of the healthy skin microbiome and can also be found in diabetic foot ulcers. -The authors should discuss potential confounding factors from sample size. The z-swabbing technique swabs across the entire wound bed (from wounds of different sizes, even in a single wound over time) and this is also a very different area from the entire base of the foot. What are the implications of this in terms of total diversity detected etc.?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No other comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "A longitudinal study of the diabetic skin and wound microbiome (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3543v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 3, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
