Review History for Egg clutch dehydration induces early hatching in red-eyed treefrogs, Agalychnis callidryas [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Egg clutch dehydration induces early hatching in red-eyed treefrogs, Agalychnis callidryas To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 13th, 2016 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 9th, 2016. The first revision was submitted on June 15th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 15th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Donald Kramer
·
Jun 15, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have done a very good job of addressing the issues raised by the reviewer and by me. The manuscript is now ready for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 15, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Donald Kramer
·
Nov 9, 2016
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers indicated that they found this study to be well designed and clearly presented. Reviewer 1 had several suggestions and requests for clarification and/or justification of some aspects of the statistical analysis, while Reviewer 2 was satisfied with the manuscript as presented. I strongly agree that the study was generally well done and the writing style excellent. However, I did have a small number of minor grammatical suggestions (noted in an annotated pdf) and some questions concerning the methods and statistical analysis (noted below). Comments from the editor: L125. You imply that you know the temperature and humidity in the lab and field, so it would be appropriate to provide some measure of the mean and range of these values. L134ff. It appears to me that your design used clutches rather than eggs as the experimental units. Please consider whether not taking clutch into account is appropriate for calculating the statistical probability and effect size for hatching time, egg size and mortality. L143. How did you estimate 11% difference? Can you provide supporting values such as the number of days to median hatch time for each treatment? L149 and elsewhere. I believe that SD rather than SE is usually recommended for describing variation of descriptive data. L365. It would be helpful to have the total number of eggs in each treatment mentioned in the caption. If clutches are the units, this figure might change to something like the mean of proportion hatched per clutch.
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Rebecca Hale ·
Nov 3, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Salica et al.’s paper, “Egg clutch dehydration induces early hatching in red-eyed treefrogs, Agalychnis callidryas”, is a very nice study of the effect of moisture on time to hatching in a treefrog species. The authors hypothesize, based on work in other species, that embryos experiencing dehydration will hatch earlier than embryos that remain well-hydrated. The study is a simple factorial design in which eggs are hydrated regularly or allowed to dry, and the embryos are followed over time until they hatch. The authors found that embryos allowed to dehydrate hatched sooner. I find this to be a very nice and simple study. I have a few questions about the implications and explanation. I am curious to know whether the stage at hatching was the same for both treatments. In the discussion, the authors say that there is no evidence that there is a difference in developmental rate between treatments, but I don’t think they have data to support this argument from this study. The relevance is that there is considerable information about the importance of hypoxia for triggering hatching in amphibians (Petranka et al. 1982; Warkentin papers) and the importance of oxygen in developmental rate. Together, there are conflicts: hypoxia causes slower development but it also triggers hatching, possibly resulting in a complicated prediction for how oxygen should effect time to hatching (examined indirectly in Hale et al. 2016). So, is the difference in time to hatching mediated by some effect of hydration on oxygen availability? Perhaps the dehydrated embryos hatch because they reach a developmental stage that requires more oxygen than they can get through their drying membranes, whereas hydrated embyros continue to get sufficient oxygen for development through to a later stage. I acknowledge that this study was not designed to address the mechanisms of the difference in development time, but I think a discussion of these issues would be nice, given the expertise of the coauthors. Specific comments: Line 85 – Unnecessary capitalization of “Earlier And More Synchronously” Line 87 - I'm a bit confused about whether terrestrial and dry conditions are to be considered synonymous. A few species of Ambystoma (A. opacum and A. cingulatum) have terrestrial eggs (e.g., Petranka 1998, Hale et al. 2016), but I don't think I'd consider those nests to be dry. So, are these species breeding in conditions in a terrestrial environment that are especially dry, or that dry out over time? Line 114 - Please give information about the average size of clutches. How many eggs are you talking about? Line 119 – Why pair the clutches? Pair ID is never addressed later, or used in the analyses as a random effect. Line 134 – Version 2.3.1? Line 136 - Time to hatching isn't binary, so why was a binomial error indicated? In general, I’m confused by this binomial GLM. Is this a logistic regression? I don’t see how logistic regression the appropriate test here since time would be the independent variable and the data aren’t independent from one time step to the next. Proportion hatched is not the appropriate dependent variable for logistic regression, so I think I’m misunderstanding. Please clarify. Line 137 - Why 2-way anova? Is pair ID considered a block effect? If so, why here and not for egg mortality? It’s apparent in the Results that the second variable is ‘day’. Please state that here and explain whether the binomial regression is also 2-way. Line 159 – Replace the comma with a colon. Line 196 – In my experience, it is not appropriate to re-cite a figure in the discussion. Cite this review as
Hale RE ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Egg clutch dehydration induces early hatching in red-eyed treefrogs, Agalychnis callidryas (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3549v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Karen Martin ·
Nov 8, 2016
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is clearly written with detailed attention to the published literature and context.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is described fully and appropriate controls are in place. The animals were treated humanely. The study could be replicated by others with the information in the manuscript.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results are presented with sufficient support. The graphs are professional quality. The statistics are appropriate and presented with the raw data. The authors address potential confounding variables such as the rate of embryonic development and the thickness and water content of the gel layer surrounding the eggs. The phylogenetic significance is discussed, and is a valid reason for the exploration of this species as compared to previous research on this phenomenon.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I enjoyed reading this interesting manuscript. I have no recommendations for improvement. You answered my questions in your text. Well done! Cite this review as
Martin K ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Egg clutch dehydration induces early hatching in red-eyed treefrogs, Agalychnis callidryas (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3549v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 13, 2016 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
