Review History for Expression, refolding and spectroscopic characterization of fibronectin type III (FnIII)-homology domains derived from human fibronectin leucine rich transmembrane protein (FLRT)-1, -2, and -3 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Expression, refolding and spectroscopic characterization of fibronectin type III (FnIII)-homology domains derived from human fibronectin leucine rich transmembrane protein (FLRT)-1, -2, and -3 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 13th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 11th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on June 15th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 15th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Jun 15, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you very much for addressing all critical points raised by all reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 15, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Apr 11, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Although reviewer #1 was very positive, reviewers #2 and #3 raised several critical issues that need to be addressed.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 27, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Please check the manuscript for grammatical errors/typographical errors.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Mention whether Figure 2 was generated using Coomassie staining or another stain? Please state clearly (in the conclusion section) how the research presented in the manuscript contributes to the understanding of FLRT biology.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall, the experiments in the manuscript are well-thought out and are presented in a logical order. The authors present multiple scenarios to explain the variations seen in the CD spectra obtained from the FnIII domains for FLRT2 compared to FLRT1 and 3. The authors also mention experiments/experimental conditions that gave negative results, which is particularly relevant if these experiments need to be replicated by another research group. However, the relevance of the paper will be enhanced if the authors add a few lines explaining the biological significance of their work Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Expression, refolding and spectroscopic characterization of fibronectin type III (FnIII)-homology domains derived from human fibronectin leucine rich transmembrane protein (FLRT)-1, -2, and -3 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3550v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 7, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The organization of the data is fine; however, the writing is poor. There are too many typos, grammar and other small issues to fix. Figures are not labeled properly. I suggest that the authors find a professional scientific writer or native English speaker to carefully go through the manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The aim and scope is good, the subject of the research FnIII domains have important functions in biology. The description in methods has flaws, mainly with how the authors used thermal unfolding to determine Tm.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data will be good for the general public.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Yang et al. presented in this manuscript a protocol for purification and subsequent biophysical characterization of three FLRT-FnIII domains. The authors managed to obtain purified FnIII domains by solubilization of inclusion bodies, Ni-NTA affinity chromatography and SEC. To validate whether the obtained proteins are folded, the authors used mass spectrometry, CD and 1H-NMR spectroscopy. The authors also explored the stability of the obtained proteins by thermal denaturation monitored by CD signal. The binding of FnIII domains to FGFR1 was also verified by SPR. The organization of the data is fine; however, the writing is poor. There are too many typos, grammar and other small issues to fix. I suggest that the authors find a professional writer or native English speaker to carefully go through the manuscript. Aside from the small things, there are several concerns on the interpretation of the data in this manuscript. 1.In line 39, the authors describe FLRTs as proteins located on the surface of neurons. That is just oversimplification of the situation as FLRTs are expressed elsewhere. 2.The second problem is with mass spec experiments (table 1), that the authors used MALDI-TOF MS to characterize FLRT1 but used ESI-MS to characterize FLRT2 and FLRT3. The authors didn’t explain the logics of using different techniques to characterize different proteins. I suggest the authors to stick to ESI-MS for all 3 purified proteins or obtain both MALDI-TOF MS and ESI-MS data for all 3 proteins. 3.In main text line 255, the interpretation of the observed mass for FLRT1 is strange. The authors suggest that the observed mass come from two truncated forms of FLRT1, but because the protein is purified by Ni-NTA affinity chromatography, there is no reason that the His tag is truncated. Also it is unlikely that the truncation happened during purification, otherwise simply adding some protease inhibitor would solve the problem. If part of the protein got lost because of MALDI-TOF, the authors could simply switch to ESI-MS for characterization. The authors need to find a better answer to explain the observed mass for FLRT1. 4.In Figure 3 CD spectra, the authors need to add the unit for the CD signal. The correct unit should be like (deg cm2 dmol-1 res-1 x 10-3). 5.The quality of the CD spectra in Figure 3 was not good for <210 nm. Instead of PBS, a phosphate buffer without Cl- is a better choice for CD experiments. 6.In main text line 291, also Figure 4, the method for the determination of Tm for the 3 purified proteins is not described. Based on the description in Figure 4B-4D (the y axis was not labeled) I believe the authors took the lowest point in CD as the 100% unfolded and the highest point in CD as 100% folded. However, for the two state transition both the folded state and unfolded state have their baselines, and often times these baselines are not flat. For example in figure 4C, the protein is basically 100% unfolded at 60C, as well as at 80 C, and the CD signal for these two temperatures are not the same, but they fall on the same baseline. The authors should explain further on how they determine the Tm of a protein in thermal unfolding experiments and took the baselines into consideration. 7.In main text line 293, the authors monitored both 228.5 and 213 nm for thermal unfolding experiments, but it is unclear which wavelength they used for producing Figure 4B-4D. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Expression, refolding and spectroscopic characterization of fibronectin type III (FnIII)-homology domains derived from human fibronectin leucine rich transmembrane protein (FLRT)-1, -2, and -3 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3550v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Apr 11, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Overall a well structured report with a straightforward aim of expressing FN3 domains of FLRT for future biophysical studies. The manuscript is let down by (1) sloppy model building and (2) many instances of poor grammar and sentence construction, which often obscures the meaning, and would benefit greatly from editing. I have noted some examples below: Line 89 “number of diseases” (plural) line 92-93 “among which are FLRTs”? line 291 should read “…..only be partially folded” line 301 “They were even so” delete “even” line 303 should be re-phrased, currently it does not make sense “but the tendency of a destabilized folding is evident.” line 332 “However, an atypical thing with these FnIII domains in contrast to other known human FnIII domains is the presence of cysteines, which are located on the F and G strands (see Fig. S2).”. Needs rewriting. line 311: what does “The order of unfolding in presence of DTT is FLRT3<FLRT2<FLRT1.” mean? Line 295-297: “To explain these significant differences we hypothesize that a Cys-Cys bridge from strand F to strand G is stabilizing the fold in FLRT1 and FLRT3, but not FLRT2.” What is the reasoning behind this?
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The section on homology modelling is written poorly, one does not get a feel for how reliable the models are. Although the authors quote a PHYRE confidence level of 99% (based on coverage), the sequence identity with the templates ranges from 9 to 25%, and for FLRT2 the top model has only a 9% sequence ID with the template. These values are low and considered challenging for homology model building. The authors refer to secondary structure but neither sequences nor model structure are annotated with these. Can the postulated disulphide bond be accurately modelled? e.g. is shown in fig 4A but how was this constructed? This part of the study severely compromises the work, and should be rewritten entirely. I am skeptical of the modelling and how it should be interpreted, so at the very least more details should be shown here to convince the reader of the quality and reliability of the models, especially as the authors try to attempt to explain the thermal melting data, and also the role of a putative disulphide bridge in the domain stability.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
See comments above - validity of experimental results is overall sound. Homology modelling section is poor.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Expression, refolding and spectroscopic characterization of fibronectin type III (FnIII)-homology domains derived from human fibronectin leucine rich transmembrane protein (FLRT)-1, -2, and -3 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3550v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 13, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
