Review History for Predator–prey interactions between native brine shrimp Artemia parthenogenetica and the alien boatman Trichocorixa verticalis: influence of salinity, predator sex, and size, abundance and parasitic status of prey [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Predator–prey interactions between native brine shrimp Artemia parthenogenetica and the alien boatman Trichocorixa verticalis : influence of salinity, predator sex, and size, abundance and parasitic status of prey To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 2nd, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 11th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on June 16th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 18th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
James Reimer
·
Jun 18, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your manuscript has been well revised, and is acceptable for publication. I do have 2 small comments, though, that you should address at the proof stage or earlier if possible. 1. Please use "T. verticalis" and not "TV" throughout the text. As a taxonomist, I believe it is important to use scientific names and not abbreviations. I know a previous reviewer commented on "TV" at the beginning of sentences, but this is incorrect; at the beginning of sentences please use the full genus name. 2. Please ensure there are spaces between the abbreviated generic name and the species name, as in many cases this is missing. These are minor but essential corrections to an otherwise very well done paper. I look forward to seeing this manuscript in its published form.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 16, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Reimer
·
Jun 11, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have heard back from two reviewers, who both felt your manuscript was generally well done and acceptable to be published in PeerJ after some revisions. Both authors' comments seem fair and constructive, and the scope of their suggested edits is not wide, and therefore my decision is "minor revisions" are needed. I look forward to seeing a revised version of your work.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 31, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Some minor English corrections are suggested in the attached review. Literature refs are sufficient The figures can use some work. See the attached review. I did not see a repository listed for the raw data. Hypotheses and results were appropriate.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Aims and scope of journal met Research question was well-defined Investigation was rigorous Methods can be replicated
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Findings were valid. Data is robust, stats appropriate. Conclusion makes sense.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
see attached pdf Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Predator–prey interactions between native brine shrimp Artemia parthenogenetica and the alien boatman Trichocorixa verticalis: influence of salinity, predator sex, and size, abundance and parasitic status of prey (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3554v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 8, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In the paper, authors study the predator-prey relationship between the native brine shrimp Artemia parthenogenetica and Trichocorixa verticalis from the salt ponds in SW Spain, finding an important predator pressure of the alien species that could reduce the abundance of Artemia, leading to trophic effects. The paper is very well written, the text is clear and unambiguous. English is correct throughout the paper. The structure of the paper is correct and figures and tables relevant and well labeled. However, I would like to comment some points concerning abstract and introduction section: 1. Line 27. Where you used “infected”, did you mean “uninfected”? 2. Line 48. Change “in press” for “Carbonell et al. 2017”. 3. Line 66. Try to provide a reference for the sentence “females are larger with higher energetic expediture”. 4. Line 78. Cite Wurtsbaugh 1992; Wurtsbaugh and Berry 1990 after “as recorded in the native range”. 5. Lines 97-98. “Infected individuals are more vulnerable to predation by birds” How? reduced mobility? red colour more attractive? 6. Lines 106-107. In prediction 2 you mentioned that predation rates would be higher at lower salinities, but in introduction you stated that TV and Artemia overlap at the extreme upper end of the salinity range tolerated by TV, and that TV is an important predator in saline ecosystems being able to live in hypersaline waterbodies. Please, clarify this.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experiments are very well design, described in detail and conducted rigorously and to a high technical standard. I have, though, some comments on this section: 1. Were the individuals of TV starved prior to experiments? it can modify their food intake behavior. 2. Line 140. “each TV was measured”. Level of accuracy? 3. Line 147. Place a comma after “parenthesis” and before “juveniles”. 4. Line 178. I would use 4 infected and 4 uninfected (8 prey in total) preys in the test.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Findings are interesting and well discussed. However, I have some comments on results and discussion: 1. Line 185. You did not mention any video recording in Methods section. 2. Lines 214-216. I do not understand this sentence. 3. Line 245. “TV also actively hunt Artemia adults in larger 3.75 l microcosmos” Is this a personal observation? 4. Line 267. Carbonell et al., 2016 & 2017. 5. Line 337-338. Change “in press” for “2017” and “Journal Animal of Conservation” for “Functional Ecology. doi: 10.1111/1365-2435.12884”.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Predator–prey interactions between native brine shrimp Artemia parthenogenetica and the alien boatman Trichocorixa verticalis: influence of salinity, predator sex, and size, abundance and parasitic status of prey (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3554v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 2, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
