Review History for Microbial communities respond to experimental warming, but site matters [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Microbial communities respond to experimental warming, but site matters To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 4th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 25th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on March 18th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 2nd, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jack Stanford
·
Apr 2, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I think you addressed the comments of the reviewers sufficiently well. Thanks for your attention to the details of the revision.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 18, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jack Stanford
·
Feb 25, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Your appeal convinced me to review this paper more carefully and I sought out a very respected microbiologst for another review. He also had major problems with the paper so you have a lot of work to do to make it publishable in PeerJ.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 18, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Earlier studies of microbial and animal responses to warming are cited, and the authors hypothesized that there would be a more noticeable response to warming at the southern site (Duke forest) than at the northern (Harvard forest). I would make Appendix 4 a figure, since results for fungi are no less important than those for bacteria. l. 64. “Materials and Methods” to agree with journal style. There is no Conclusions section, although the Journal style suggests there should be one. l. 270-274. The Acknowledgements section should not contain funding information, l. 274. “References”, not “Literature Cited”, as per journal style.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The study was designed to assess whether bacterial community structure and function would respond differently to soil warming at a site near the northern and southern boundaries of the eastern deciduous forest. At each site open top chambers (OTCs) allow for increases to ambient air temperature at 0.5°C steps between 1.5 and 5.5°C above ambient. Please indicate chamber dimensions and that there was a tree in the center of each. Samples were taken from each chamber on one date in spring of 2011. Dates should be given for these collections. I assume this means (5 cores/chamber x 9 steps/site x 2 sites = 90 samples, but this should be explicitly stated). In general the Methods section is clear. However, I am not certain how the soil moisture data are used in the analyses. This parameter was monitored continuously (l. 95), but what values are employed in the analyses to generate the gradient shown in the figures. Is this an annual value, a monthly value, the value during the week before the single sampling date? Please explain and justify the appropriateness of the values chosen.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The Results and Discussion section is clearly written, but I have some questions regarding interpretation of results and discussion. For example, the descriptors “quickly” and “slow growing” are used to characterize bacterial and fungal growth. I get the point, but the chambers were initiated in January 2010 and you sampled sometime in the spring of 2011. It would seem that the differences in growth rates would be most apparent on a time scale of days – weeks, not 1 + year. After allowing for some expected seasonality, that the condition at the time of sampling presumably represented some sort of equilibrium condition. My biggest concern is the statement that “warming should increase both bacterial abundance and function at both sites” (l. 210-211). One would expect the effect on function, but abundance is impacted by both bottom-up (nutrient supply, temperature, etc.) factors and top-down (grazing) factors. Attention should be given to densities of protozoa, meiofauna, and macrofauna in the soils and how their grazing of the bacterial and fungal communities could factor into the interpretation of results or the authors should substantiate why grazing does not impact their findings.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Some other detailed comments: l. 18. “scale-up” Overused jargon. Rephrase. l. 26. Insert “community” to read “microbial community structure” l. 40. I don’t think you mean “northern and southern range” but rather “extremes of the range” l. 44. I suggest “Work at these sites and elsewhere indicates …” l. 62. I think that including the explanatory phrase about fungi here only muddies the point. l. 124 – 125. Italicize taxa names. l. 140. Degree sign needed after the first 95. l. 165. Why is sulfate underlined? l. 196 – 199. This is a result and should be moved to somewhere in that section. l. 218. “3.5 x greater” than what? than where? Do you mean than at the southern site, or than bacterial abundance? Clarify. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Microbial communities respond to experimental warming, but site matters (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.358v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 20, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
It is unclear how many samples are analyzed. The text says 12 open-top-chambers (line 65), but then says temps from 1.5 to 5.5C over ambient were analyzed at 0.5C increments (9 samples). Are there 12 otc’s at each site or 12 otc’s total; this is unclear. Either way, the numbers (9 temp treatments / 12 otc’s) don’t add up. The number of samples is never reported. (Acutally, I now see that this may be reported in Appendices 2 and 3 – As printed, I only see some of the columns of these tables.) Either way, the number of samples in unclear.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I don't understand why five soil cores were taken from each open-top-chamber and combined. It makes perfect sense to combine cores from a site when a large number of sites are being analyzed, but this study uses a very small number of sites. By analyzing each core separately (for bacterial/fungal abundance, community composition, and enzyme activity), some estimate of within-site variation could have been made. The cost-effectiveness is not a valid argument -- the methods used in this manuscript are low cost. There is absolutely no reason to be using TRFLPs to describe and compare microbial communities in 2013. The cost of DNA sequencing is absurdly cheap. Figures 1 and 2 are pretty, but appear largely driven by your very small sample size. This is especially true for Figure 1A, in which one soil (warm, dry) has greater abundance of 16S than other samples. In short, I have major problems with your small sample size (10 samples per site? – again, it is unclear) and your characterizations of the microbial community using outdated technology.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are not valid for two main reasons: 1) The sample size is very small (10 samples per site / no replication within temperature treatments), and 2) Microbial communities are characterized using TRFLPs.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
If you think you want to pursue this study further, I would strongly recommend characterizing the microbial communities using DNA sequence data. It's a shame that you combined the 5 cores sampled within each OTC -- if samples from each core exist separately, it would be very useful to use those to estimate the variation in richness, diversity, abundance, etc. within OTC sites. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Microbial communities respond to experimental warming, but site matters (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.358v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 4, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
