Review History for Characterisation of microsatellite and SNP markers from Miseq and genotyping-by-sequencing data among parapatric Urophora cardui (Tephritidae) populations [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Characterisation of microsatellite and SNP markers from Miseq and genotyping-by-sequencing data among parapatric Urophora cardui (Tephritidae) populations To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 9th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 28th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on June 7th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on June 21st, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 25th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Laura Boykin
·
Jun 25, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for expanding on the introduction and discussion. It is ready to go now!
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 21, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Laura Boykin
·
Jun 13, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please develop the introduction a bit more. The problem statement is not developed enough- what is the damage caused by Cirsium arvense? What strategies have been tried before? In addition, the discussion needs further development.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 7, 2017
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Laura Boykin
·
Apr 28, 2017
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for your submission, both reviewers suggest minor changes and I agree with them. Please make the corrections and resubmit. Laura
label_author_1
Bernard Kaufmann ·
Apr 14, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article under review by Johannesen and co-authors is clear, well-written and of interest to all population geneticists and genomists. Comparisons of microsatellite and GBS markers differentiation patterns are important and every new case is informative – this one is clean and rigorous in both molecular and the analytic parts. The article should be accepted with minor revisions and added information as detailed below. Tables & Figures Table 2. In the caption, please indicate the test used to estimate significance of HWE (esp. if Bonferroni correction was used), even if it is written in the main text. Figure 2 & 3. Captions should remind the reader of the number of individuals analyzed in the structure runs for each pop. Axis legends of the DeltaK graphs are too small: the font could easily be increased 2-fold. Graph titles in Fig 3 should be indicated only once, as was done for Fig. 2. For figure 3. Please keep the same color schemes between Structure bar graphs (e.g. north is light blue in 1 and 2, but dark blue in 3 and 4).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Introduction A paragraph should be added to justify the utility of comparing microsatellite and GBS data. Why use two types of nuclear markers? Are there other studies that point to a meaningful comparison of microsatellite and GBS? Materials & Methods Line 80. Please justify why only tetra, penta and hexanucleotides were used – which accumulate within-repeat mutations faster than dinucleotides? Line 90. What brand and model of sequencer did you use for electrophoresis? Line 109. Replace Thee by The Line 141. Please provide the reference for the pyRAD program. Line 143. Please provide the reference for Structure. Line 144. Please justify the low number of STRUCTURE iterations.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Results Line 152. The “standard” and “mutant” vocabulary is not useful here, esp. as standard only means the allele found in the individual that was sequenced using NGS. Consider deleting the sentence “mutant alleles…base variation” as this is self-evident for microsatellite markers. Line 154. “… identical PCR conditions it will be” should be replaced by “it was”. Line 165. “There was no evidence for stuttering or large allele dropout at any locus”. What about null alleles? How do you explain very high significant Fis values at UC01, UC05 and UC06, as well as high but non-significant values in these and other loci? Is the -0.142 value for Fis at Vildbjerg for Uc06 correct? Line 209. “were 2 and 4, respectively (replicating the observed pattern for microsatellites)”. K was 2 or 3 in microsatellites, never 4. Thus please remove the text between brackets. Discussion Lines 240-243. The sentence is interesting but is there any reference for this affirmation? Line 244. Comparing Fst values is not valid when not taking heterozygosities into account. It is expected that Fst should level down with increased heterozygosities. Microsatellites are therefore expected to show lower Fst values than GBS (Hedrick PW (1999) Evolution, 53, 313 –318, and one example among many others Hoffman, E.A. et al., 2005. Molecular Ecology, 14(5), pp.1367–1375). If the authors choose to compare, they should compare heterozygosities in a manner similar to the cited papers. They could also drop the implied comparison. Lines 255-256. Could variability in genome representation among individuals be reduced by improving or changing molecular or analytical methods?
Cite this review as
Kaufmann B ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Characterisation of microsatellite and SNP markers from Miseq and genotyping-by-sequencing data among parapatric Urophora cardui (Tephritidae) populations (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3582v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 27, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The MS is well written and will just require some editing to correct the typographical errors. It will also be useful to share the MS with a native English speaker to correct the grammar.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors have done well in the experimental design. Though the sample size was very low for conclusive analyses of microsatellite data, the authors confirmed this analyses with a second set of markers.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The finding are in accordance with literature citation and conform with the insect behavioural and phenotypic trends.
Comments for the author
It will be useful for the authors to include some other tools to do their analyses for instance the population assignments and exclusion for them to confirm the evolutionary trends of the insect in terms of gene flow between the presumed genetic clusters. Lastly, the authors should add to the discussion a conclusive remark that besides use of molecular markers to resolve the population structure of Urophora cardui, that integrative taxonomic approaches should be undertaken through the use of chemical ecology, behavioural studies, mating compatibility, etc. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Characterisation of microsatellite and SNP markers from Miseq and genotyping-by-sequencing data among parapatric Urophora cardui (Tephritidae) populations (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3582v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 9, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
