Review History for The hidden anatomy of paranasal sinuses reveals biogeographically distinct morphotypes in the nine-banded armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The hidden anatomy of paranasal sinuses reveals biogeographically distinct morphotypes in the nine-banded armadillo ( Dasypus novemcinctus ) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 11th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 3rd, 2017. The first revision was submitted on June 27th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 29th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Laura Wilson
·
Jun 29, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors, Thank you for addressing the earlier, minor comments to your manuscript, I think your revised version is now ready for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 27, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Laura Wilson
·
May 3, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors, I have received three reviews for your manuscript. All reviewers suggest that this is a great and well-presented study that will represent a valuable addition to the literature, and which should be published following some minor revisions. Please address these minor comments, particularly reviewer #1 has suggested an additional discussion point and reviewer #3 has requested some additional method-related detail. All the reviewers have noted that there are a few grammatical issues here and there in the text, and some typos - please take care to read through the text and correct these. I look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Alana Sharp ·
Apr 20, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is clear and well written; a few minor typos and suggestions are pointed out below: Line 59 – uncover, not uncovering Line 121 – through, not throughout Line 245, 284, 315 – also reference figure 6 in the results Line 399 – remove “of” Line 446 – add “of” in “…, but the size and shape of frontal sinuses…” Figure 6 caption – remove "of the" in "Each of the morphotype is represented by…" Figure 4 caption – state that they are reconstructions of the adult specimens. The figures are excellent. This isn’t necessary but I’d recommend adding my paper on the mechanical role and mass reducing effect of large sinuses in Diprotodon (Sharp AC, Rich TH (2016) Cranial biomechanics, bite force and function of the endocranial sinuses in Diprotodon optatum, the largest known marsupial. Journal of Anatomy 228: 984-995.) at either line 428, 429 or 432.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a very interesting study demonstrating the importance of using concealed morphological differences to detect variation within and between species. The aims and conclusions are clear, and the methods and results are sufficiently detailed. As far as I am concerned, the paper could be published as is, with just a few very minor suggestions. A discussion on why there are different morphotypes within D. novemcinctus over the geographical range would be interesting, especially as the effects of climate and biogeographic events are mentioned in the abstract but not discussed. I imagine this might be discussed more in the accompanying paper (Hautier et al. unpublished data) which is on cranial shape variation, however, if not it would be good to include a brief discussion. Cite this review as
Sharp AC ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "The hidden anatomy of paranasal sinuses reveals biogeographically distinct morphotypes in the nine-banded armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3593v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall, I was able to understand the language used in the manuscript. However, there were minor grammatical issues throughout that could easily be resolved by having a native English speaker edit the manuscript. In several instances, as indicated in the attached pdf, the authors should use more appropriate citations, but overall they provide sufficient background and context fore their paper. The structure of the article, figures, and tables are all appropriate, and they shared their raw data. The results are very thorough and relevant.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I believe that this work is very valuable and adds to our understanding of internal cranial morphology and its importance in systematics. The authors used large sample sizes, which are crucial in studies of variable structures such as paranasal sinuses. In several cases, as indicated in the attached pdf, more details about data collection would be helpful for replication.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are clearly illustrated and described and I believe that the results presented are sound.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In their manuscript, "The hidden anatomy of paranasal sinuses reveals biogeographically distinct morphotypes in the nine-banded armadillos (Dasypus novemcinctus)" Billet and colleagues explored whether internal cranial anatomy, specifically paranasal sinuses and recesses, can be used to distinguish among different subspecies of nine-banded armadillos. The authors provide solid evidence that paranasal sinus morphology is distinct among subspecies, despite external homogeneity in skull morphology. I felt that this paper was interesting, but did have several minor areas that could be improved. First, the manuscript would benefit from being read for correct English grammar. However, I was able to understand the manuscript. I also felt that the literature cited was not always appropriate, which I indicated in the attached annotated pdf, and some parts of the methods section should be more detailed. Overall, the paper was very interesting and with some minor revisions would make a great addition to the anatomical literature. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "The hidden anatomy of paranasal sinuses reveals biogeographically distinct morphotypes in the nine-banded armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3593v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Irina Ruf ·
May 2, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
1) The use of terms concerning the µCT scans should be consistent throughout the manuscript (see comments in the PDF). 2) The topic is presented very well and the reference list covers the most important literature related to the field of research. However, there are two references missing that cover prenatal ontogeny of Dasypus novemcinctus and Zaedus minutus, and might be important for the discussion: REINBACH, W. (1952): Zur Entwicklung des Primordialcraniums von Dasypus novemcinctus LINNÉ (Tatusia novemcincta LESSON).- Teil 1:Z. Morph. Anthrop. 44: 375-444.- Teil 2: Z. Morph. Anthrop. 45: 1-72. REINBACH, W. (1955): Das Cranium eines Embryos des Gürteltieres Zaedus minutus (65 mm Sch.-St.).- Morph.Jb. 95: 79-141. 3) Some figures could be improved by additional labeling (see comments in the PDF) 4) I missed the figure capture of Fig. S1.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
1) The identification of sinuses and recesses just by external investigation (based on photographs) should be explained in more detail.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
no comment
Comments for the author
Great work and well written manuscript! Please see comments and corrections in the attached PDF. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Ruf I ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "The hidden anatomy of paranasal sinuses reveals biogeographically distinct morphotypes in the nine-banded armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3593v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 11, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
