Review History for Why sauropods had long necks; and why giraffes have short necks [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Why sauropods had long necks; and why giraffes have short necks To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 3rd, 2012 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 22nd, 2012. The first revision was submitted on January 7th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on January 18th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 19th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
John Hutchinson
·
Jan 19, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Well done! I am happy with the MS as it stands, so as I said I can happily accept it.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
- submitted Jan 18, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.2
John Hutchinson
·
Jan 18, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Apologies for the delay in the decision, which was due to a delayed informal clarification from a reviewer. However, we are pleased to report that there are just some very minor corrections to be made and then we can accept the paper. Reviewer 2 essentially accepted the rebuttal, and I deem your revisions to Reviewer 1 to be adequate and not requiring re-review. However, these final changes came up: The speculations in the MS on Deinocheirus's neck length are unnecessary and excessive; they could lead to confusion and misinformation in the literature. Scaling fossils consisting of just forelimbs to whole body reconstructions and neck length data is not good practice in paleontology. It is not even certain (yet) that Deinocheirus is an ornithomimosaur; some recent studies have questioned this. Better to leave it out entirely from the paper. Gigantoraptor is based on more published actual data and fills the same need of having a large-ish theropod represented; same as for Therizinosaurus and Tyrannosaurus. With those 3 taxa you are well covered for theropods. Sorry for noticing this late-- I wish I'd spotted it earlier, but I feel this is an important amendment to make, otherwise I would let it go. The text and figures need to be changed to accomodate this. As soon as that is done, I will happily accept the paper.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 7, 2013
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
John Hutchinson
·
Dec 22, 2012
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers note that the paper is very review-like but with enough insight to merit eventual publication (one could call it a "meta-analysis"). I will email the marked-up pdf from Mallison. I agree that if it is to make broadly applicable statements about long necks it should cast a wider net, especially within Dinosauria. It definitely should be made clearer that it is pretty well accepted that mammalian necks have some sort of genetic/developmental constraint on vertebral number (except a few oddballs), including giraffes, as per the 2nd reviewer. Based on the revisions detailed in your Rebuttal, I'll decide if the paper needs re-review- a serious, rigorous effort would mean no need for re-review. Consider this provisional acceptance with the caveat that moderate revisions are needed as per the reviewers' comments.
label_author_1
Heinrich Mallison ·
Dec 22, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Minor points: - sometimes, the authors go a bit too far trying to write in easily understandable, conversational tone. Clarity can suffer from bad language and from oversimplification, the balancing act doesn't work sometimes. I have marked these instances in the PDF. - the structure is unusual, but helps readability a lot.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This is a review article, thus it relies exclusively on previously published data. The review is not universal and all-encompassing, and no claim of completeness is made. The authors should consider including some of the better-known flukes such as Tanystropheus (proportionally long neck, very elongate vertebrae, ecology of neck totally unclear), even if all they can say is that science is clueless.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors conflate proportionally long necks and absolutely long necks. This needs to be fixed by being more specific at each mention, and be shortly introducing the difference. Furthermore, the authors gallantly omit non-sauropod Sauropodomorpha and basal Dinosauria. However, basal dinosaurs had proportionally long necks, and "prosauropods" start all the key features that allowed extremely long necks (proportionally and absolutely) in sauropods. They should expand and adapt their manuscript to detail the early history of long necks more. Lastly, the difference between a long neck and an extremely long neck is of importance (and ties in with absolute size), and should be discussed. Maybe the author can define a term for the longer-than-proportional (even for sauropodomorphs) necks that are the focus of the paper?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I chose "major revisions" because this smack in between minor and major. A re-review may not be necessary, depending on how much of my suggestions you follow. Otherwise, please see the edited PDF. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Mallison H ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Why sauropods had long necks; and why giraffes have short necks (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.36v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 9, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_2
p. 6 - anterior limb elongation has a lot to do with supporting the long neck - also tail - so expand more on this. p. 8 reaches is apotheosis - remove the is BUT isn't apotheosis a bit too much to use the term in anatomy......? p. 8 - if you avoid plesiosaurs then why you cover whales in detail? I think you should consider the plesiosaurs despite their aquatic modes. I like the whale part. the bifid spinous processes (also in humans) are due to bilateral symmetry. the same for the ligs and muscles. in theory there is just fascia at the median plane. Now if bilateral structures do not show, this implies compression and fusion at the median plane. figure 8 re-draw and label - it is confusing to see the extensions the part with the ostrich neck needs more in depth coverage. I am not convinced that the more muscular neck option is totally unlikely. Compare a small bid muscle bulk of neck with the ostrich to see how size affects the situation in birds.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
it is fine as it is impressively detailed coverage - the descriptions are fine
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data are fine. Well -- a lot of it is guessing and second order assumptions but they are the only thing to be done - it is paleontology - so it is necessary to do this - we cannot do experiments with fossils. the comparative extant situation is sound and supportive.
Comments for the author
I liked the article - I found the giraffe situation unnecessary but if you like to see it in this prism it is OK - I see no new information on the giraffe aspect and no one expected more vertebrae in the giraffes - we know mammals are genetically locked. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Why sauropods had long necks; and why giraffes have short necks (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.36v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 3, 2012 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
