Review History for Assessing the impact of human trampling on vegetation: a systematic review and meta-analysis of experimental evidence [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Assessing the impact of human trampling on vegetation: a systematic review and meta-analysis of experimental evidence To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 21st, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 18th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on March 28th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 3rd, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marion Röder
·
Apr 3, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your manuscript can be accepted by PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
- submitted Mar 28, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marion Röder
·
Feb 18, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Consider the suggestions by reviewer 1 and give arguments in case you do not find this suggestion valuable.
label_author_1
Nick Meader ·
Feb 17, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The reporting of the paper is very clear and thorough both in terms of background and methods.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The research question is clear as are the methods used for conducting the meta-analyses and the meta-regression analyses. The methods used are of a high technical standard.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I think the conclusions are sound and based on high quality statistical analyses and well established systematic review methods. I have one suggestion for improving the analyses but its relatively minor and up to the authors if they want to consider it: I think it makes sense that you extracted 188 effect sizes from the 9 randomised controlled experiments - as this is a good use of the data reported in the papers. The discussion mentions the limitations of non-independence in the synthesis but I wonder whether its worth doing a sensitivity analyses using robust standard errors as a further way of justifying the validity of this approach. See for example: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/jrsm.5/pdf
Cite this review as
Meader N ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Assessing the impact of human trampling on vegetation: a systematic review and meta-analysis of experimental evidence (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.360v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Sarah Dalrymple ·
Feb 12, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Clearly and concisely written throughout, this article conforms to the PeerJ structure whilst incorporating standard sections used in reporting the findings of systematic reviews and meta-analyses. The introduction and discussion are adequate to place the study aims and findings within the context of existing research and demonstrates how the study fills a knowledge gap in the subject. Figures are of sufficient quality for publication with the exception that the formatting of the final column in table 1. The column needs to be widened to properly accomodate the term 'hemicryptophyte'.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The investigation has been undertaken rigorously and meets the standard requirements of systematic review and meta-analysis.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
As with all properly undertaken systematic reviews, the findings of this article not only attempt to summarise a general outcome relating to a given intervention but also shine a light on the needs of future research. The article is carefully argued throughout and therefore does not overstate the findings and is thorough in the treatment of the limitations of existing research. I hope the plant conservation community are alerted to the existence of this article and take its recommendations on board in order to improve future practice and research.
Cite this review as
Dalrymple SE ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Assessing the impact of human trampling on vegetation: a systematic review and meta-analysis of experimental evidence (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.360v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 21, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
