Review History for Freeze-thaw decellularization of the trabecular meshwork in an ex vivo eye perfusion model [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Freeze-thaw decellularization of the trabecular meshwork in an ex vivo eye perfusion model To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 7th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 6th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on July 7th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 10th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Boris Rubinsky
·
Jul 10, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Loewen, I accept your revisions and I believe that the paper is now acceptable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 7, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Boris Rubinsky
·
Apr 6, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear author, The reviews were generally favorable and we look forward to recieving your revisions.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 14, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript comports well with each of the basic reporting criteria although it is not a hypothesis drive analysis.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Research question- can improved cellular ablation result from freeze thaw cycles vs. chemical treatment of a biological matrix? Study contains appropriate controls, assay methodologies and can be replicated.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data is sound and support the conclusions.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Freeze-thaw decellularization of the trabecular meshwork in an ex vivo eye perfusion model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3629v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 6, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The English language should be upgraded for clarity. Some words are used incorrectly, such as “substrate”, there are many missing words, and there is often a disagreement in plurality between the subject and verb. Please have your manuscript edited by a native English speaking colleague. Many, but not all words or phrases of concern have been highlighted or have a sticky note attached to them as examples to be corrected. The introduction/background is good, and explains current knowledge of the field quite well, with sufficient literature references. The figures are mixed in quality. Fig. 2- There is a typo in the caption. Fig. 3-The authors need to label the trabecular meshwork, sclera, and cornea. Where were the images taken, in high, low, or intermediate flow areas? What is the black line near the eGFP? Fig. 4-It is unclear how the authors can see to the cribriform layer with the confocal, unless they did frontal sections. The confocal microscope can only go 50 microns deep, while the cribriform layer is about 150 microns deep. What is figure 4? Is this tissue? How can the authors see the cribriform? Fig. 5- It would help to label the x and y axis of the graph. Fig. 6-It is not clear that Fig. 6 is necessary. If the data needs elaborate statistics, it would be better to increase the n to establish validity. Raw data supplied as PeerJ policy.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question is well-defined, but it needs to be stated how research fills an identified knowledge gap, and why this is worthwhile doing. There needs to be some clarification of the use of confocal microscopy to visualize the cribriform area, as it does not have the capacity to investigate that deep into the TM. This would be better visualized with some type of EM or by using frontal sections.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors need to better explain their use of the B-spline, which does not add to the readability of the text, and it is unclear why they need to use it for ANOVA. Did they do multi-testing correction? Where there is speculation in the discussion, this should be stated as such.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors need to consider the effect of segmental flow with saponin treatment. This treatment will only flow saponin into high flow regions, so if only 2 quadrants are taken to examine at random for eGFP, it is possible that they could get 2 high flow areas, 2 low flow areas, or a mix to the two. What does this do to repeatability if the n is low? Miscellaneous points: A. Saponin flowed in goes only to the high flow regions of the TM. B. Freeze-thaw should affect all the TM cells. C. The microscopic pictures shown for control, freeze-thaw, and saponin-treatment need to be at a much higher resolution. It is not possible to examine ECM for damage at this resolution, so does not bolster the claim of ECM damage by one or the other treatment. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Freeze-thaw decellularization of the trabecular meshwork in an ex vivo eye perfusion model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3629v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Padmanabhan Pattabiraman ·
Apr 4, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This manuscript is well written and the findings are clearly described in the text.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Within the scope of the questions posed, the experimental paradigms used are satisfactory. 1. Yet, histological examinations of extracellular matrix can enhance this manuscript. Since the authors mention that the extracellular matrix materials are retained after freeze thaw decellularlization but they fail to demonstrate it. Addition of immunostaining and electron microscopy study to demonstrate the loss of cellularity but retainment of extracellular matrix will enhance the manuscript. 2. Also it is important to remember that the extracellular matrix is an important signaling molecule and mechanotransducers bound to integrins. Therefore, since the authors claim that there are no cells or cellular machinery, they have to explain how does the extracellular matrix material stay there.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The findings are interesting and this technique will definitely have an impact in the field.
Comments for the author
It would be interesting to see if stem cells can be made to repopulate these ablated spaces as an option for cellular therapy. Cite this review as
Pattabiraman P ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Freeze-thaw decellularization of the trabecular meshwork in an ex vivo eye perfusion model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3629v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 7, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
