Review History for A probabilistic analysis reveals fundamental limitations with the environmental impact quotient and similar systems for rating pesticide risks [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A probabilistic analysis reveals fundamental limitations with the environmental impact quotient and similar systems for rating pesticide risks To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 15th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 9th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on April 1st, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 6th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Thomas Backhaus
·
Apr 6, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for the extensive and convincing rebuttal! I guess not everybody will agree with the paper in the end. Which perhaps is actually a good thing, if the paper manages to spark a good debate...
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 1, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Thomas Backhaus
·
Mar 9, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please find attached the comments of both reviewers, coming to similar conclusions. In particular, please ensure you react on the criticisms by both reviewers that the number and selection of compounds (nine insecticides) might be insufficient and/or might lead to a bias.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 10, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript attempts to demonstrate that environmental risk indicators as the Environmental Impact Quotient (EIQ), which are based on discrete and qualitative rating systems, reveal problems in rating the environmental risk. The authors demonstrate this by comparing results of the discrete risk rating based on the EIQ-Methodology with an approach using a probabilistic Monte Carlo simulations to calculate adjusted EIQ’s. They conclude that a variation in environmental effects, shown by discrete EIQ ratings may not be different when incorporating uncertainty. The article is written in a very comprehensive language and describes the essential methods and results in a condensed way. The discussion and most of the conclusions are logical. Some of the conclusions need in my opinion to be undermined by more experimental and statistical analysis.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The submitted article is within the scope of the journal. In general the applied methods and models are described clearly and in a comprehensive manner so they can be reproduced by other scientists. The method of mapping discrete risk ratings to probabilities for four factors within the EIQ method seems logic and is certainly a new approach. Despite this, the authors do not justify their choice of active ingredients used in the analysis to compare the adjusted and unadjusted EIQ’s. The authors should explain why were only nine insecticides were chosen from the possible list of 158 insecticides or 480 active ingredients in the cited in the database? Why was the range for the selected ai’s limited to EIQ’s of 13.3 to 44.4 (total range 8,67 to 101,83) to prove the hypothesis of the article. Line 102 :Maybe mention here also what constant values were used for the score of 1 and 5.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The criticism that through qualitative categorization of quantitative information like toxicity and other active ingredient properties will results in a loss of information and might lead to wrong ratings of risk is appropriate. But in the article this is demonstrated only for a set of nine insecticides. Overall the statistical analysis of the comparison of the two approaches is weak. The conclusion that a variation in environmental effects, shown by discrete EIQ ratings may not be different when incorporating uncertainty is demonstrated for only one pair of insecticide combinations. The difference of the risk ratings of the probabilistic EIQ approach with 10% is clearly less than the 21% difference of the original EIQ method. Therefore the adjusted EIQ approach suggests that there is a reduced environmental impact. But I can’t follow that the reduced difference leads to the conclusion that there may be no difference (line 117). The authors should also consider to show the comparisons of other insecticide pairs (e.g. in a Table). It should be mentioned that the difference between the two approaches is less for most of the other insecticide pairs and that for some insecticide pairs the adjusted EIQ shows larger differences (+7% for dimethoate and dimethoate) than the original EIQ method. The conclusion that the EIQ method is a problematic method to assess the risk of pesticides since it can not consider uncertainty should be clearly linked to the results. Since risk assessment methods based on discrete categorization of a.i. properties, like the EIQ, are often used to rank pesticides the authors may also consider to include a rank analysis of the two methods. Line 111-112 This is in my eyes this not the correct interpretation of the results. There is no overlap (10th percentile of ai1 > 90th percentile of ai2) between the EIQ’s of lambda-cyhalothrin/bifemithrin/ cyfluthrin and permethrin/malathion/acetamiprid. The authors should clearly define what they mean by overlap and which insecticides overlap. Line112-113 The authors should mention that the difference between the two approaches is less for most of the other insecticide pairs and that for some insecticide pairs the adjusted EIQ shows larger differences (+7% for dimethoate and dimethoate) than the original EIQ method. Figure 1 The values of the unadjusted EIQ for malathion, permethrin and bifenthrin do not correspond to the values in excel sheet of the supplementary material.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "A probabilistic analysis reveals fundamental limitations with the environmental impact quotient and similar systems for rating pesticide risks (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.364v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 8, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I believe that the authors have given more credence to the EIQ process as a risk assessment tool. It was not intended for this purpose and is not used for this purpose by regulatory agencies. It is similar in many ways to the hazard ranks associated with toxicity categories and pictograms and provides a useful tool in decision making by managers of pests. In this the paper is somewhat unfair in its criticism and they are certainly not the first to point this out. If this criticism was removed or toned down and the incorporation of risk treated as a refinement, the paper would be acceptable. However, before accepting it, more exploration of other scales for the PEIQ should be explored and the reasons for the deviation in Fig 1 explained.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors should conduct a correlation between their PEIQ and the EIQ to test extrapolation and they should include more than 9 chemicals in their assessment. There are many listed in the EIQ website to choose from
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are what would be expected and have been noted by others already.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
There are a number of specific comments in the attached PDF of the paper. These need to be addressed. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "A probabilistic analysis reveals fundamental limitations with the environmental impact quotient and similar systems for rating pesticide risks (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.364v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 15, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
