Review History for Defensive behaviors of the Oriental armyworm Mythimna separata in response to different parasitoid species (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Defensive behaviors of the Oriental armyworm Mythimna separata in response to different parasitoid species (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 4th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 29th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on June 27th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 24th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ann Hedrick
·
Jul 24, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your careful attention to the revisions.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 27, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ann Hedrick
·
May 29, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please revise your manuscript, taking care to address all of the concerns raised by the reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 25, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The presentation is sufficiently clear. The references are mostly quite old. Figure 1 has an error as A and B are the same figure but listed as representing the two different species. I found Fig. 4 difficult to interpret. What is the grid? I find it impossible to interpret the importance of this study as there is no background on the relevance of these parasitoids to the natural situation for the larvae. Li 142 need to add SD Li 200 correct Myers and Smith from Myer and Simith
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This seemed reasonable if the aim was simply to look for differences in the host responses to the two parasitoids without any attempt to understand the relevance to populations of Mythimna separata. Need to include units for thrashing frequency in the text. These levels seem very low on a per minute basis. Is that really the relevant time unit to use?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are valid but would be more interesting if put into a broader context even by giving an idea of the levels of parasitism in local field populations and further context for the study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
It isn't clear if this is part of a larger study on this system. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Defensive behaviors of the Oriental armyworm Mythimna separata in response to different parasitoid species (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3690v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Luciana Elizalde ·
May 26, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article describes the defensive behaviors of Mythimna separata larvae in response to two parasitoid species, Microplitis mediator and Meteorus pulchricornis that differ in the oviposition behavior. Authors use laboratory insects to make the behavioral observations. In addition, they include the host body size as a variable influencing the behaviors. The English needs to be improved in some parts, I highlighted several instances when this was necessary (see General comments). In addition, the article will benefit in terms of clarity if the authors state clearly their hypothesis, or what they expect at the introduction. In general, the context is well presented, although a bit of more information on natural history of the system would be ideal (see General comments), as well as clearly stating what are the knowledge gaps that this article fills. Table and figure captions need to be re-written in order to be self-explanatory, specially Fig. 4 (see General comments for more details). In all captions, authors must change “Mythimna separate” by “Mythimna separata”. Raw data is provided to the reviewer showing all the necessary info to re-run the analyses, except for the observation time. In the data sheet, it is necessary to change “confrontation.time” by handling.time
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The article is an orignial contribution for researchers working on insect pests and host-parasitoid interactions. However, as mentioned above, the hypotheses and the knowledge gaps that this article fills are not clearly stated. Data seems to be correctly analyzed (but see General comments). The results could be important when choosing parasitoid species for biological control.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I think that the discussion needs to be improved in order to show what the implication of the results are (both in terms of evolution and biological control), and the final paragraph needs more work to reorganize the ideas and leave a clear take home message.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
It would be helpful to include the objectives in the Abstract, as well as the hypothesis. L. 31. Delete “make the” L. 38-39: re-write “similar in slope for both parasitoids yet on a higher intercept for M. mediator than for M pulchricornis” in biological terms instead of statistical ones L. 40. Replace “realizing an ovipositor sting” by “stinging” L.61: add “larval” before host, because eggs, pupae and adult insect do not grow as they aged L.68: replace “using a” by “in the”, and replace “which was composed of” by “including”. In addition, it will be important to add in this paragraph if host and parasitoids are native and coexists frequently in nature in order for them to have chances to coevolve oviposition and defensive behaviors L. 101. Replace “with” for “a” L.119: replace the first “was” for “were” L. 120: Remove “on the plant” L. 129. It is necessary to explain why authors used a gamma distribution to model host handling time by parasitoids, instead of a linear model L. 130. Add “and” at the beginning of the sentence L. 133. Remove “on the plant” L. 142. Add “SD=” before 49.2% L. 144-6. In this paragraph authors are reporting the results of host dropping behavior, thus, the results of host escaping should be reported in the first paragraph L.140-50. Re-write the sentence to “Thrashing frequency was almost 10 times higher in response to M. mediator (on average 2.11 [explain clearly what this number is, thrash/min?]) than in response to M. pulchricornis (on average 0.22 [explain clearly what this number is])” L.151. Delete “realized” L. 152: It seems that authors need to change “In response to M. mediator,” by “For M. mediator,” The same in line 154 for the other parasitoid species L. 159. Please specify what variable is that P- value referring to. L. 169-70 Data supporting this statement was not presented in the Results. Either include it (I think is the best) or add here that is unpublished data. In addition, it will be clearer if authors move this sentence after the following one. L. 178-9: a reference or data from the authors is needed here L.180: as it is written it seems that authors are referring to parasitoids when they say that “Studies of parasitoids suggest that the propensity to escape rather than defend”, although it should be related to host. Please, re-write L. 184. It would be interesting to discuss something related to the fact that they found less dropping than escaping L189. A reference, data or observations from the authors is needed after “probably owing to its shorter ovipositor” handling time L. 189. Change Pulchricornis by pulchricornis L. 192-6. It would be interesting to discuss the biological meanings of these results. For example, why more frequent thrashing by the host increased the likelihood of being attacked by M. mediator when it is supposed to be a defensive behaviour? In addition, it is not clear what authors are referring to when they say “the risk of attack”, is that the likelihood of being attacked? Is that is the case, authors need to use the same terms, and to discuss their results for handling time. L. 197-204: this last paragraph needs order, as it is, it’s not clear what the message authors want to leave to the readers. Figure 1. Change caption to “Distribution of body weight for Mythimna separata larvae escaping or not in response to Microplitis mediator (A) and Meteorus pulchricornis (B)” In addition, it is necessary to separate the bars for each weight category in the figure as to make it clearer. Figure 2. Same modifications as suggested in Fig. 1 for the caption and the figure. Figure 4. Re-write the caption to include all variables in the model. Cite this review as
Elizalde L ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Defensive behaviors of the Oriental armyworm Mythimna separata in response to different parasitoid species (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3690v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 4, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
