Review History for Heritability estimation of osteoarthritis in the pig-tailed macaque (Macaca nemestrina) with a look toward future data collection [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Heritability estimation of osteoarthritis in the pig-tailed macaque ( Macaca nemestrina ) with a look toward future data collection To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 16th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 30th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on April 17th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 17th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jianye Ge
·
Apr 17, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors, After review your revisions, we decide to accept your manuscript for publication. Thanks for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. We are looking forward for more submissions from you.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 17, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jianye Ge
·
Mar 30, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors, please revise the manuscript according to the comments.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 21, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Missing one equation number on page 4, the first equation (line 17) on this page is missing number
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The paper is well constructed and the points are clearly presented. There is one concern about the design. The author mentioned that the age is not very well normally distributed in the real data(page 6&7, over presented for young population and under presented in old population). While in general population, age is not normally distributed, it is skewed. So in such case, I wonder if the author should apply some transformation or state the skew is not severe enough to affect the results
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The dataset are clearly stated in the paper. The author provided a proof study on a well-known point, but no published paper talking about this. One suggestion about the results show in figure 1, the convergence might be presented with a p-value.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall this is a well presented paper. All points are clear. Data sets used in the paper are clearly stated. The reviewer just has some concern about whether the distribution of covariates will affect the results or not. The convergence test p-value for the data shown in figure 1 might help understand the figure better. And only a missing index of the equation is found on page 4. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Heritability estimation of osteoarthritis in the pig-tailed macaque (Macaca nemestrina) with a look toward future data collection (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.373v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 25, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript was well written. The study on heritability estimation of osteoarthritis is thorough and impressive, even though no confirmative conclusions were obtained on the real data, due to the limitations on the sample size and relatedness. The authors went further to explore the minimum sample sized required for estimation of heritability. Their findings in this work will be very useful for future studies. Though no additional experiments are needed for this study, I am excited to see how their models will perform when they have enough samples in their future work. A few minor issues: 1.No sequential line numbering makes annotation a little bit difficult. 2.Spell out the entire phrases the first time you use them. On page 2, MCMC in “e.g. improving the MCMC convergence…”; On page 5, OST in “and ß was set to… and OST”. 3.Use a, b, c… to indicate the individual panels in the multi-panels figures, and change figure captions and the main text accordingly. 4.Axis labels in Figure 1, 5 and 7 are too small to read.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experiments were well designed and the methods were described in detail.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The conclusions looks reasonable.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Heritability estimation of osteoarthritis in the pig-tailed macaque (Macaca nemestrina) with a look toward future data collection (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.373v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Mar 30, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This manuscript is well written and structured and conforms the PeerJ template.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research questions in this manuscript is clearly stated. The data and method sections are described with sufficient and reproducible details in terms of equation, explanation and software.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The authors has made sufficient efforts to investigate their data. Although the conclusion is inconclusive, which is possibly due to the sample size, the results still have potential impact.
Comments for the author
The major point of this manuscript is to investigate scenarios in which complex trait data violate normality assumption during heritability estimation. Using both simulation and real data, authors compared these two models and were reluctant to make decisive conclusion due to insufficient data. Some concerns about this study are: (1). To what degree, the selection of cut-points during data transformation will impact the heritability estimation. In Figure 3, how did authors select cut-points? Have they ever tried other cut-point thresholds in later stage of heritability estimation? (2). In figure 4, can authors provide any p-values to test the deviation of OPR estimation to true values? Can authors also propose any solution to heritability estimation in context of high real heritability values in the "Simulations: Comparison of methods" section. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #3 of "Heritability estimation of osteoarthritis in the pig-tailed macaque (Macaca nemestrina) with a look toward future data collection (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.373v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 16, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
