Review History for Preferences for achromatic horizontal, vertical, and square patterns in zebrafish (Danio rerio) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Preferences for achromatic horizontal, vertical, and square patterns in zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 19th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 28th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on August 5th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 8th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Darren Burke
·
Aug 8, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
A good, clear job has been done dealing with the suggestions, and so I am happy to accept the revised version of the MS.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 5, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Darren Burke
·
Jun 28, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers have sensible and useful suggestions for improving the paper, and so I would encourage you to engage with all of the suggestions, even if you argue against some suggested changes (or explain why they are not possible).
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 9, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In this manuscript the authors detail a study in which the preferences for stripe and square patterns were assessed in adult zebrafish. Overall the manuscript is well-written.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is well-described and performed within ethical standards. Most details are present in the methods, except do the authors know the age of the adult zebrafish used in their experiments? This detail is important to ascertain if a younger, middle-aged, or older adult were used in this study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are valid as currently presented if ignoring the potential for sex-specific effects. Did the authors note the sex of the fish during the trials and can the analysis be conducted by sex? This is important as some researchers do report sex-specific preferences in various vertebrate models including the zebrafish. A sex-specific analysis would greatly enhance the reported findings.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Preferences for achromatic horizontal, vertical, and square patterns in zebrafish (Danio rerio) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3748v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 28, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript by Rimstad et al. describes achromatic preferences by adult zebrafish. They show that, depending on size, adult zebrafish show a preference for horizontal and/or vertical stripes, relative to a squared pattern. The study seems well designed and carried out and the findings are novel. In general, more clarity is needed regarding the statistical approach.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The section on the statistical analyses was very difficult to understand. Please rewrite lines 117-119, breaking the text up into multiple, simple sentences. Give examples of the comparisons made. For example, define a block using the terminology shown in the figures (combination of data derived from horizontal, vertical and square pattern conditions). I am still not exactly sure what an object by block interaction is. The statistical strategy is key to understanding this data set. The authors should endeavor to make the strategy clear and easy to interpret to non-statisticians. Related to the previous point, please include a single table with all of the statistical results in the revised manuscript. Please detail what “tracking errors” means (line 121). In general, the tracking software should be pre-calibrated such that all animals are reproducibly tracked.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In reference to figure 2A (10 mm pattern), line 131 says that “the interaction effect reflects the increased preference for the vertical stripe pattern when it was paired with the square pattern”. If you look at figure 2A, the data shown there suggests that there is a preference for vertical stripes relative to both horizontal and square patterns. Is there a better way to visually represent the data that would more accurately reflect pairwise comparisons? Related to the previous point, the authors should consider showing the data as box and whisker plots with overlaid scatter data showing individual data points. The study was well designed and powered. Readers would benefit from seeing the data in a way that more shows mean, error, and individual data points. In Figure 4, it intuitively makes sense that the animals that spend more time in the horizontal patterned side swim at a slower velocity. The discussion section should give some interpretation of when this is not the case (as shown in figures 2-3). Are there examples in the chromatic literature where time spent on one side increases with a concomitant decrease in swimming speed and other examples where that is not the case? Remove line 170-172, regarding a non-significant trend. Minor comments 1.Please cite primary literature in the introduction, rather than review articles (e.g. line 35). 2.Include the pattern size (10 mm, 5 mm, 1 mm) at the top of each graph for easy reference. 3.Include dimensions in figure 1A. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Preferences for achromatic horizontal, vertical, and square patterns in zebrafish (Danio rerio) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3748v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 19, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
