Review History for Effects of tire leachate on the invasive mosquito Aedes albopictus and the native congener Aedes triseriatus [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effects of tire leachate on the invasive mosquito Aedes albopictus and the native congener Aedes triseriatus To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 29th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 25th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on August 10th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 12th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ilaria Negri
·
Aug 12, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I think that the manuscript is now ready to be published.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 10, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ilaria Negri
·
Jul 25, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This is a very nice article that sheds light on the ecology of this invasive mosquito species and needs very small revisions (please, see the few suggestions made by the reviewers). Congratulations.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 18, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript describes a series of field and laboratory experimental manipulations of mosquitoes, to determine the effect of tire leachate and relative influence of a number of factors on egg and larval development. The experimental design and resultant data are informative and effectively address the stated aims of the work. Such studies are important for our understanding of not only the ecology of potential disease vectors, but the risk they pose in terms of disease transmission.Specific comments follow below: 1. In the Materials and Methods section, please provide the temperature and humidity ranges or environmental conditions of study sites. 2. Line 303; A. albopictus should be Aedes albopictus. 3. In the Discussion section, it would be good to have a statement that directly answers the question posed in the title. 4. Please check your references format carefully.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Very sound and clear. Just suggesting to add the study sites map could be good.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Interesting and important findings.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This manuscript describes a series of field and laboratory experimental manipulations of mosquitoes, to determine the effect of tire leachate and relative influence of a number of factors on egg and larval development. The experimental design and resultant data are informative and effectively address the stated aims of the work. Such studies are important for our understanding of not only the ecology of potential disease vectors, but the risk they pose in terms of disease transmission.Specific comments follow below: 1. In the Materials and Methods section, please provide the temperature and humidity ranges or environmental conditions of study sites. 2. Line 303; A. albopictus should be Aedes albopictus. 3. In the Discussion section, it would be good to have a statement that directly answers the question posed in the title. 4. Please check your references format carefully. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effects of tire leachate on the invasive mosquito Aedes albopictus and the native congener Aedes triseriatus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3756v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Scott Carver ·
Jul 25, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I enjoyed reading this manuscript. It is written clearly, justified well, and is concise and unambiguous. Literature citations appear sufficient, and the content of the manuscript is professionally presented.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The design and technical components of this study are well designed, clearly articulated and well justified. Careful consideration has been given to the laboratory experiments used to complement the field findings. This is a valuable addition to the research and supports robust study conclusions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I have no issue with the validity of study findings. The authors have identified a gap in the literature on mosquito development in used tires. The data and statistics are robust and the conclusions well supported by the results, without overstating their significance. The authors have been thoughtful in the implications and future directions of their study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I have only minor suggestions to help the authors improve their study: 1. It was somewhat jarring in the abstract to switch from mg/L Zn to mg/L tire leachate. My recommendation is to make mg/L Zn the main unit in the abstract and only present mg/L tire leachate in parentheses. 2. It seems relevant that the authors should provide some justification in the ms for why they chose to omit Cx. pipiens (an important vector of WNV) from the same trials they subjected the other two mosquitoes. 3. L244-246. Can you provide an approximate date when A. albopictus became established in the US? 4. Please attend to grammatical errors on L296, L304 and L320. Cite this review as
Carver S ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effects of tire leachate on the invasive mosquito Aedes albopictus and the native congener Aedes triseriatus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3756v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 29, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
