Review History for Variable effects of temperature on insect herbivory [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Variable effects of temperature on insect herbivory To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 7th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 19th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on April 9th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 22nd, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michael Singer
·
Apr 22, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I commend the authors for their serious efforts to revise and improve the manuscript. I agree that it has become a stronger paper and one that makes an important contribution to understanding biotic effects of climate change.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 9, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Singer
·
Mar 19, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I agree with the comments of both reviewers. There is much merit in this work, but the manuscript will need some substantial revision before it is acceptable for publication. In particular, please revise the manuscript in response to: 1) the comment of reviewer 1 regarding the life stages of the insects studied, 2) the comments of both reviewers about clarifying the analytical methods, and 3) the comment of reviewer 1 about the validity of the findings. Following on this last point, I caution the authors from concluding that "effects of temperature on herbivory rates are unpredictable" (line 287, also see line 51 and the Abstract). More precisely, this study shows variation in this relationship (no single predictable relationship), but there are likely to be factors that do predict the variation in this relationship. They are simply not known at this time, and not revealed by this study. Minor comments Line 158: "consumption rate lie..." has a grammatical mistake. Line 195: "then" should be "than."
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 21, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Mostly good, although there are two confusing things that need to be fixed. 1. Consumption rates by herbivores are reported to be "mass corrected g" but there is no indication of how this calculation was done. My guess is that they calculated how much a 1-g herbivore would eat--in that case, consumption should be reported as g/g. And the authors should state explicitly somewhere what they did. 2. There is a disturbing fuzziness about what life stages were used. I assumed that they used only larvae. Figure 1, however, shows an adult beetle, and suggests that some of the herbivores were adults. Alerted to this, I went back through the paper and couldn't find any place where this was specified--this MUST go into the paper, and if they used a mix of larvae and adults they would need to partition the data this way too.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The statistical modeling of the results seem oddly long and complicated; but I'm OK with the actual content. It's true that performance curves have complicated, strange shapes, and that you need multi-parameter models to capture them. The other weakness is that the number of replicates per insect-plant pair is quite variable. The authors point this out, but it nonetheless detracts from the overall power of the study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
My main comment focuses on how the authors connect their findings to conclusions about how warming climates may affect top-control of plants by insects. Their conclusion boils down to basically this: "there is a lot of variation in the shapes of insect thermal performance curves (for feeding), so much so that our expectation of higher consumption at higher temperatures was not met." They then use this conclusion to knock down more theoretical predictions (from O'Conner) that higher temperatures will stimulate insect feeding more so than it will stimulate plant growth, so that insects will have bigger impacts in warmer worlds. My problem with this conclusion, as it is developed in the ms, is that it's not connected to local patterns of temperature variation in the environments from which the insects were taken. The experimental temperatures used were 20, 25, 30, and 35--and between 20 and 30 feeding really did rise for most of the herbivore-plant pairs (see Figure 2). The major fall came at 35C. So the relevant question becomes what is the mean temperature at their site in Maryland, and what is the *frequency distribution* of temperatures. If the temperatures are often between 20 - & 25, then climate warming of several degrees really would increase the community level consumption of plants. If the mean temperature is 30 (which I really doubt) and it rises a few degrees, then consumption rates could fall. When the authors characterize patterns of local temperature variation in the text, they say simply that the range of temperatures 20 - 35 is observed. Figure S1 provides a lot more detail, but it suggests that mean temperatures lie in the range 20 - 25 or even below. So in this sense there's a real mismatch between what the authors found (Figure 2), what they conclude (climate effects hard to predict), and actual patterns of temperature variation at their site (Figure S1), which suggest that most insects most of the time are at the cold end of their temperature range (and that warming a few degrees would stimulate consumption). My strong recommendation is that the authors obtain (or simulate using a package in R like lars-wg) hourly patterns of temperature variation over an entire summer, and to couple those estimates with the measured performance curves for each insect-plant pair. In such an approach, they could then simply add 1, 3, 5, etc. degrees to the ambient predicted temperature and ask, over the summer, how much difference does it make. Such an approach would provide a vastly more convincing framework for evaluating claims about the effects of climate change on consumption.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Variable effects of temperature on insect herbivory (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.376v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 17, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall, this study presents an impressive amount of data on herbivore consumption thermal reaction norms and resource quality. The authors find considerable interspecific variation in these thermal reaction norms, but rather surprisingly marginal impacts of resource quality. In general, the study appears to be well conducted and appropriately interpreted. However, I do have several questions and concerns about the analyses and presentation of the results. Major comments: The Introduction would benefit from a greater explanation and focus on the concept of the thermal reaction norm. Much of this ms rests on interpreting differences in thermal reaction norm shape--indeed the entire conclusion hinges upon the fact that many studies do not account for declines in consumption under excessively high temperatures--but it's never explicitly mentioned that there is a minimum for performance (consumption in this study) below which consumption is zero, rising to an optimum and declining to a maximum value beyond which consumption is zero. Also in the Intro, the expectation for the exponential increase in herbivory with increasing temperature is not well motivated; in particular, it is unclear whether this expectation derives from empirical results or theoretical predictions. The Discussion would seem to suggest a theoretical basis, and if so, this should be made clearer earlier on. The authors make much of their community level approach, and indeed, this is an important aspect of the study. Yet, the analyses would seem to ignore the community aspect in that they assume statistical independence among species. Even in the absence of species-level phylogenetic hypotheses, higher-level phylogenetic relationships can still be incorporated into the analysis to account for this non-independence. Either this needs to be incorporated or the authors at the very least need to justify its omission. Minor comments: In the Results, it would be helpful to define how 'significance' is being assessed for the MCMC models; not all readers will be familiar with the Bayesian equivalent of a p-value. Editorial comments: Line 2 - 'import' should be 'important' The text would benefit from greater clarity of the directionality of effects; for example, in the first sentence of the ms "Temperature can influence the top-down control of plant biomass by increasing herbivore metabolic demands.", directionality is given to 'increasing' herbivore metabolic demands, which should be matched with 'increasing' temperature, but is not currently presented as such. Some of the transitions between sentences and paragraphs could also use some careful editing. For example, the second and third (and again in the sixth) sentences (in the abstract) each begin with 'however'.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Fine except for the issue of phylogenetic non-independence described above
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Fine
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Variable effects of temperature on insect herbivory (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.376v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 7, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
