Review History for The Plasmodium berghei RC strain is highly diverged and harbors putatively novel drug resistance variants [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The Plasmodium berghei RC strain is highly diverged and harbors putatively novel drug resistance variants To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 28th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 12th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on August 7th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 15th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Audrey Odom John
·
Aug 15, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Nice job handling the reviewer queries. Congrats on your work.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 7, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Audrey Odom John
·
Jul 12, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Overall, the reviewers were quite positive. I believe that the queries that were raised should be addressable in a straightforward and timely manner, and we look forward to seeing your revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Marcus Lee ·
Jul 9, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No additional comment; the paper satisfies all the criteria.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In this study, Songsungthong et al use whole genome sequencing to examine the P. berghei RC (PbRC) strain that in earlier work by Peters was selected to be chloroquine resistant. The RC strain is deficient in haemozoin formation, has increased levels of glutathione, and was more recently identified as resistant to artemisinin. Here, the authors start by validating the reduced susceptibility to artesunate, with the RC strain approximately 8-fold less sensitive than PbANKA. Whole genome sequencing of PbRC revealed a high level of divergence from the reference PbANKA, as well as several other sequenced P. berghei genomes. The high number of variants that are unique to PbRC, almost 10-fold higher than any other strain with unique or private variants, confounds the identification of possible resistance loci that could contribute to the observed phenotypes. The authors survey possible candidates, and report SNVs in several, including PbCRT, PbMDR1, the deubiquitinating enzyme PbUBP1, and PbPI3K, but not the P. berghei ortholog of Kelch13. None of these SNVs is an obvious smoking gun, and the inability of the RC strain to form gametocytes precludes the use of genetic crosses to further dissect the resistance phenotypes. Overall the study by Songsungthong et al demonstrate the high level of divergence of the RC strain from other sequenced strains of P. berghei, and provide a foundation from which further genetic validation of drug resistance candidates could be based. There are a few additional points that the authors should consider. i) For the analysis of “private” variants in PbRC, it would be informative if the authors described in more detail the proportion of SNVs that are located in coding regions, are non-synonymous, and are in the core genome. ii) Gene amplification is a common mechanism of drug resistance in Plasmodium sp. Could the authors comment on whether gene amplifications could be detected, and might be a mechanism of resistance in this strain? iii) Given the inability of the RC strain to form gametocytes, were there mutations detected in AP2-G and other candidate loci involved in gametocytogenesis? Cite this review as
Lee M ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "The Plasmodium berghei RC strain is highly diverged and harbors putatively novel drug resistance variants (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3766v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Vasant Muralidharan ·
Jul 9, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Well written paper that is clear and easy to understand. All the data has been shared.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Antimalarial drug resistance is an emerging global health issue as malaria has become untreatable in some parts of the world due to failure of drug treatment, including the current frontline therapy, artemisinin. Recent evidence show that artemisinin resistance is multi-factorial though mutations in one gene, kelch 13, show a clear association with resistance. The authors of this study attempt to identify the genetic basis of antimalarial resistance using the murine malaria parasite, Plasmodium berghei. A specific strain of P. berghei, PbRC was known to be resistant to several antimalarial drugs, including artemisinin (ART) and chloroquine (CQ). The authors hypothesize that PbRC may share some of the resistance mechanisms with drug resistant human malaria parasites. The authors use whole genome sequencing to answer this question and compare the genome of PbRC to published genomes of several P. berghei strains to identify SNPs unique to PbRC. They use Tajima's D score to identify genes undergoing selection. The methods are described in detail and the work is well done. The story of artemisinin resistant malaria is still evolving and we don't have the complete picture. The authors identify numerous genes that may play a role in drug resistance.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors show that PbRC is resistant to artesunate, a water-soluble derivative of ART, with an increased ED50. Using whole genome sequencing, the authors identify several unique SNPs in the PbRC strain and convincingly demonstrate that it is quite divergent from other sequenced P. berghei strains. Unfortunately, the SNPs identified in PbRC do not match with SNPs found in artemisinin resistant P. falciparum. This does not take away from the study though as artemisinin resistance is known to be multi-factorial and our understanding of it is incomplete. The authors are careful about using the literature to make an educated guess as to which sets of genes are likely responsible for drug resistance. However, one issue is that the PbRC strain does not form gametocytes and strains that do not form gametocytes often have associated mutations with them. The authors do not compare PbRC genome with the genome of the ANKA 2.33 strain (gametocyte non-producer) to narrow down their targets. Another potentially useful method to narrow down the list of candidate genes responsible for drug resistance would be to assess essentiality. The authors do that for one candidate (Pbdpap3) but not for others. As the authors may be aware, this information is available for nearly 3000 genes in the P. berghei genome (Plasmogem phenotype database: http://plasmogem.sanger.ac.uk/phenotypes ). These comparisons may help the discussion to focus on drug resistance and curate the list of candidates further.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Please discuss why you think that host cell invasion genes are changing due to balancing selection. Its unclear how they would help/hurt drug resistance. Why would PbRC need to evade the immune system more than other strains? Maybe it has more to do with being a gametocyte non-producer than drug resistance? It may also be useful to compare the unique PbRC SNPs with the transcriptional dataset for ART-resistant P. falciparum (Mok et al Science 2015, 347:431-35). Cite this review as
Muralidharan V ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "The Plasmodium berghei RC strain is highly diverged and harbors putatively novel drug resistance variants (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3766v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 28, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
