Review History for Identification and analysis of CYP450 genes from transcriptome of Lonicera japonica and expression analysis of chlorogenic acid biosynthesis related CYP450s [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Identification and analysis of CYP450 genes from transcriptome of Lonicera japonica and expression analysis of chlorogenic acid biosynthesis related CYP450s To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 21st, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 30th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on August 15th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 17th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
David Hyten
·
Aug 17, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have looked over the revisions and believe the authors have adequately addressed the reviewer comments and recommend that the manuscript should be published.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 15, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Hyten
·
Jun 30, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have carefully read through the manuscript and the two reviews and am recommending minor revisions for the manuscript. Overall the work in the manuscript is scientifically sound. Please address each comment from the two reviewers and make the necessary revisions as recommended.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 25, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Lonicera japonica is an important medicinal plant, with more than 500 traditional Chinese medicine prescriptions containing L. japonica. The active compounds of L. japonica include essential oils, phenolic acids, flavone, triterpenoid saponins, iridoilds and inorganic elements. Biosynthesis of almost all the secondary metabolites has cytochrome P450-dependent catalytic reaction. In this study, the authors identified 151 putative CYP450s from L. japonica. These 151 putative CYP450s were systematic analysis by classification, phylogenetic analysis and gene ontology classification. Among them, 47 CYP450s were totally assigned to 25 KEGG pathways, which might be involved in secondary metabolism. As CGA is the major component of L. japonica, CYP450s that might be involved in CGA biosynthesis were identified. Three C4H and two C3H were identified and cloned for functional related biosynthesis of CGA. The results showed that only LjC3H2 exhibited a similar expression pattern with accumulation of CGA. The authors implied that as C3H and C4H not only participated in CGA biosynthesis, but were also involved in other metabolites, such as flavonoids, anthocyanins, condensed tanins. This resulted in difference between the expression pattern of genes and accumulation of CGA. In all, the manuscript was well organized. There are still several questions need to be clarified, 1. line 236, the sentence “Results indicated that all 151 CYP450s were mapped to one or more GO terms, of which 145 were assigned to the “cellular component”, 151 to the “molecular function”, and 151 to the “biological process” (Fig. 3).” is sophisticated. How to explain it? 2. Five CYP450s candidate for biosynthesis of CGA were analyzed by qRT-PCR, however, no close relationship was detected between the expression level and the accumulation of CGA. I think it might be useful to analyze the whole pathway genes as well with co-expression analysis to further understanding the expression pattern of these genes. 3. Knock-down or knock-out analysis is needed for confirming the function of these candidate CYP450s in biosynthesis of CGA in planta. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Identification and analysis of CYP450 genes from transcriptome of Lonicera japonica and expression analysis of chlorogenic acid biosynthesis related CYP450s (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3781v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 27, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Clear, unambiguous, professional English language used throughout. Intro & background to show context. Literature well referenced & relevant. Structure conforms to PeerJ standards, discipline norm, or improved for clarity. Figures are relevant, high quality, well labelled & described. Raw data supplied.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Original primary research within Aims and Scope of the journal. Research question well defined, relevant & meaningful. It is stated how research fills an identified knowledge gap.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Conclusions are well stated, linked to original research question & limited to supporting results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In RNA extraction and qRT-PCR section, I can not see wether the authors have 3 biological replicates for qRT-PCR analysis or not. This should be explained and corrected before Acceptance. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Identification and analysis of CYP450 genes from transcriptome of Lonicera japonica and expression analysis of chlorogenic acid biosynthesis related CYP450s (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3781v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 21, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
