Review History for Linking a genetic defect in migraine to spreading depression in a computational model [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Linking a genetic defect in migraine to spreading depression in a computational model To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 27th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 14th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on April 23rd, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 23rd, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Stefano Sensi
·
Apr 23, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised version successfully covers all the raised issues.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 23, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Stefano Sensi
·
Apr 14, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. The reviewers and I concur that the manuscript is suitable for publication pending the required revisions.
label_author_1
Ernest Barreto ·
Apr 8, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a well-written and clear manuscript that computationally examines the consequences of a genetic mutation of the sodium channel. Three different models are used to address the effects at the level of the action potential, the more elaborate spreading depression signal, and anoxic depolarization. The results are a useful contribution and point out that the effects are manifested in unexpected and perhaps counterintuitive ways. The results inform the important topics addressed in the discussion regarding the ambiguity of common used terminology. Two minor “basic reporting” points: In the discussion of figure 2, the phrase “These Hopf bifurcations are subcritical” appears. The wording surrounding this makes it unclear which bifurcations are being referred to. I would expect both the wild-type and mutant versions of HB1 to be subcritical, and both HB2 bifurcations to be supercritical. In the caption to Figure 1, the description of the right inset says that the voltage steps from -10mV to -120mV. It should be the other way around. Also, there is no direct reference in the text to the main part of Figure 1. Describing this when it is introduced would help make the discussion of the “marked plateau” on page 8 easier to understand.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No concerns. Although the work is computational in nature, it is fully appropriate for PeerJ.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No concerns.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Please note that the first paper listed in the references section was published in 2011, not 2010. Also, the authors should include a citation to the erratum to Cressman et al. (i.e., JCNS 30, 781 (2011)). A few grammar/wording suggestions (these do not affect the clarity of the manscript): “Prolonged” is misspelled as “prolognoed”. “In form of” should be “in the form of”. “Boththe” needs a space. In many instances the word “rational” should be replaced with “rationale”. After Eq. (42), the text should read “These parameters result from the two constraints…”. “Occur” on page 10 should be “occurs”. P. 13: “higher threshold” is better than “larger threshold”. Cite this review as
Barreto E ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Linking a genetic defect in migraine to spreading depression in a computational model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.379v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 13, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article “Linking a genetic defect in migraine to spreading depression in a computational model” by Dahlem et al., presents a computational study of the effect of Familial hemiplegic migraine mutant (FHM3) on a single neuron behavior. Specifically, authors present 3 models for: (1) action potentials (simple spiking at ms scale) involving only Hodgkin-Huxley dynamics (HH), (2) spreading depression, and (3) anoxic depolarization (at tens of seconds) combining HH dynamics with dynamic ion concentrations. Each model then has 2-versions one each for wild-type and FHM3 mutation. The study then shows how the dynamics changes at these different temporal scales in the mutant case as compared wild-type cell. The most interesting result of the study is that even the frequency of mutant cell is smaller as compared to control cell, the mutant model is more susceptible to spreading depression. Based on their results, the authors then argue that “hypoexcitability” and “hyperexcitability” is too simple a classification for defining neuronal behavior. Over all I found the model biophysically relevant; this paper very interesting, clearly written, and suitable for publication by PeerJ. I have a few minor comments. (1)The membrane surface, membrane volume, and extracellular space volume seems to be too small (may be a unit error?). (2)The units in Figure 2 legend need to be corrected. (3)The reference to Figure 2 on page 9 (first paragraph) should be corrected, i.e. the “oscillatory” label is in Fig. 2 not Fig. 1.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
See basic reporting
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See basic reporting
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
see basic reporting Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Linking a genetic defect in migraine to spreading depression in a computational model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.379v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 27, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
