Review History for Development and evaluation of rapid novel isothermal amplification assays for important veterinary pathogens: Chlamydia psittaci and Chlamydia pecorum [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Development and evaluation of rapid novel isothermal amplification assays for important veterinary pathogens: Chlamydia psittaci and Chlamydia pecorum To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 20th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 2nd, 2017. The first revision was submitted on August 17th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 22nd, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Aug 22, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Jelocnik and colleagues: Thank you for addressing the careful and thorough reviews of your work. It is my opinion that you successfully addressed the concerns of both reviewers and made your work much better, as well as ready for publication in PeerJ. Congratulations! This will undoubtedly be an important contribution to veterinary research on chlamydial pathogens. Well done! I look forward to the final product! -joe
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 17, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Aug 2, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This is a well-written and well-designed study with clinical relevance, as the targeted Chlamydia species are important veterinary pathogens. The developed LAMP assay stands to benefit the community interested in combating these serious pathogens. Please pay specific attention to the concerns of the reviewers, particularly reviewer 1. Consider the electrophoresis experiment to make the approach more practical across labs that may not have access to a real-time fluorometer. I believe that addressing all of the concerns of the reviewers will suffice for publication in PeerJ. Well done, and good luck with your revision!
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 1, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Chlamydia psittaci and C.pecorum are impotant veterinary pathogens with great zoonotic potentials. Jelocnik et al. established a specific and sensitive LAMP method for their detection. This manuscript is extremely well written, and the conclusions are well supported by the performed assays.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This work was well designed by validating the method from different angels, comparing to the existing assay, and testing on different samples; Also, sufficient types of positive and negative controls have been used.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data in this MS is statistically sound; The conclusion made in this MS is solid;
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This reviewer has following comments regarding this manuscript, and the authors may consider to address them. 1) This reviewer sincerely appreciates the efforts of the authors to test the sensitivity and specificity of the established assays with different approaches. However, a spiking assay would make everything more meaningful, instead of testing on the pure isolates or on the clinical samples separately. The authors may consider to spike serially diluted C. psittaci or C. pecorum to the samples (negative swabs); The spiked samples will be tested by your assays and existing PCRs simultaneously until you find the breakpoints. This is realistic question when you apply the established assays in field samples, and during this process both efficiency of DNA extraction and PCR amplification are considered; 2) In this assay, the real-time fluorometer was used while this machine is not available in many labs. For this purpose and part of the validation of a new assay, the authors should provide a nice image of gel elctrophoresis on the LAMP products (showing the sensitivity); 3) The figure 1 needs to be modified. The regions outside of the primers should be left out, making the figure easier to read; 4) Table 7 is confusing to this reviewer; 5) Lines 149-155 indicate that other chlamydial species were used to validate the assays; however, not much was mentioned in Results (Only C. pneumoniae). This is very important, one of the advantages of this assay over other LAMP assay. The authors may indicate here that any copy number of other chlamydial species cannot be amplified by the assays; or copy number below certain number turned to be negative in this assay. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Development and evaluation of rapid novel isothermal amplification assays for important veterinary pathogens: Chlamydia psittaci and Chlamydia pecorum (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3799v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Naraporn Somboonna ·
Aug 2, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors clearly described the development and assay evaluations of C. psittaci-specific and C. pecorum-specific LAMP. The authors use professional English language throughout. The research is self-contained to the hypotheses and the finding methods are important to the animal health diagnostics. However, minor comments and advices are noted along the annotated pdf file.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Research question is well defined, and experimental design is appropriate and sufficient. If possible, a comparison of results to a commercially viable solid-phase ELISA may be included, and the authors should discuss the reason for discontinued use of the commercially viable solid-phase ELISA and its pros and cons compared with the newly developed LAMP. Additional notes are in the annotated pdf.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data is clear and robust. Conclusion is well stated.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The article is well written. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Somboonna N ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Development and evaluation of rapid novel isothermal amplification assays for important veterinary pathogens: Chlamydia psittaci and Chlamydia pecorum (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3799v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 20, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
