Review History for Effect of nutrition survey ‘cleaning criteria’ on estimates of malnutrition prevalence and disease burden: secondary data analysis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effect of nutrition survey ‘cleaning criteria’ on estimates of malnutrition prevalence and disease burden: secondary data analysis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 10th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 11th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on April 23rd, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 24th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Scott Grundy
·
Apr 24, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your article is accepted - congratulations
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 23, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Scott Grundy
·
Mar 11, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers returned favorable comments. However, they requested some modifications which need attention. Please make the requested changes if you agree with them and return your manuscript along with responses to the reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 1, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript submitted by Crowe et al., address an issue of utmost relevance for public health in developing countries. The manuscript is well written and the results properly analyzed. My comments are mainly to complete the information for the reader: 1)Is there any cleaning method that could be considered the best? According to the results, could it be discussed which one seems to be the best? 2)In order to identify the best cleaning method, a gold standard to identify SAM should be available. Is this the available? Or at least are there candidates? This should be discussed. 3)The authors used already available data to perform the secondary analysis. Certainly they didn’t participate in the collection of the results. However, it would be useful to know more about the process. For instance, were the data entered manually? If this was the case, this was done once or twice. If the second was the case, how was the disagreement between the 1st and the 2nd data entry handled? 4)The abbreviation SAM is introduced in line 106, but it appear earlier in the text (line 98). It should be introduced the first time it appears. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effect of nutrition survey ‘cleaning criteria’ on estimates of malnutrition prevalence and disease burden: secondary data analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.380v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jaime Almandoz ·
Mar 5, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The tables and figures are appropriately labeled but the scale and the color scheme, particularly in figure 2, obscure the finer points of the data but do allow the trend to be apparent.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The article is well laid out with a clearly stated aim that is addressed in the results section and the implications cogently explored in the discussion.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
This is a well written article that raises the important implications of data cleansing and how the chosen criteria may affect the response to an important situation or crisis. The authors rightly call for disclosure in data cleansing methodology and propose the creation of a correction model so that data which are cleansed in different ways may be more readily compared. Over-nutrition is a growing concern is poorer countries, particularly in Central America. The authors appropriately mention the potential impact that data cleansing may also have when addressing this problem and this is definitely an area that could be focused on in future projects. There is a call for a data-cleaning consensus and the hope that data validation in the field may reduce errors and the need for extensive cleansing. Several minor questions for the authors are below: - In the absence of a consensus statement which method of data-cleaning would you use or recommend be used for now? - In emergency situations would you recommend using the more inclusive WHO criteria, which may overestimate the severity of the situation, allowing for data collection errors in a hostile or difficult environment? - Are you able to give any examples where discrepancies in reporting have led to an improper response to a food shortage crisis?
Cite this review as
Almandoz J ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effect of nutrition survey ‘cleaning criteria’ on estimates of malnutrition prevalence and disease burden: secondary data analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.380v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 10, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
