Review History for Gene expression of benthic amphipods (genus: Diporeia) in relation to a circular ssDNA virus across two Laurentian Great Lakes [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Gene expression of benthic amphipods (genus: Diporeia ) in relation to a circular ssDNA virus across two Laurentian Great Lakes To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 29th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 1st, 2017. The first revision was submitted on August 22nd, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 24th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Peter Prentis
·
Aug 24, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You have answered all queries very well and I am happy for this manuscript to proceed to publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 22, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Peter Prentis
·
Aug 1, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I really enjoyed reading this manuscript and found that it was well written and elucidated. Overall I feel there are a few areas that paper can be improved. In particular I agree with reviewer 1 that you need to be more transparent about your assembly. I agree the assembly may be a bit fragmented and this needs to be reported.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 23, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This study reports the transcriptome analysis of environmentally sampled Diporeia exhibiting differences in CRESS-DNA viral load. This report appears to be the first to explore transcriptional responses to infection with this virus in invertebrates. An analysis of differential expression was performed using RNA-Seq and standard methods, supported by qPCR data across 3 selected genes. DEGs between animals with high and low viral load are discussed in the context of their KOG classification and association with immune response. Interestingly, transcriptional changes in genes such as those involved in innate immunity were observed among the 3 sampling sites investigated. This is an interesting article within the scope of this journal that is well written and clearly presented. The authors provide a good amount of data to support their findings and I have been able to confirm the raw sequence submissions at NCBI. The main considerations relate to information surrounding the analysis of the RNA-Seq data in this study. Some detailed comments are listed below. Results and discussion It appears that there are multiple extant Diporeia species, can species be differentiated using COI gene analysis? It is unclear in the manuscript if the Diporeia sampled in the study are of the same species, though this was assumed with the mention of sub-species in line 189. The authors mention in Line 205 “the lack of clustering between samples is likely as a result of high variability between organisms”, this might be expected of the comparisons if the samples are distantly related. I feel that the term “haplotype clades” needs to be clarified in the context of defining relatedness between samples. Line 200: The reported contig N50 is rather low (290 nt), and read mapping results are quite poor (as low as 16% and not greater than 62%) as outlined in Table S4. It is possible that the reference assembly is still rather fragmented. The authors should clarify how this has been handled in the analysis (assembly metrics file seems to be missing – see General comments). Sample MI40(130) has a very low sequence yield compared to the other samples which may have introduced some bias to the DE analysis, unduly causing some dissimilarity with genes expressed in low levels. The authors should provide some support for retaining this sample in the study. Line 108: The authors noted that reads mapping to the SILVA database were excluded from the assembly. Were there reads mapping in high abundance to database entries for potential pathogens of Diporeia, that may suggest a possible co-infection? If so, this may be interesting to mention in the manuscript. It appears from Table S4 that a large proportion of reads map to the rRNA database, which seems to impact heavily on the overall sequencing depth. I would suggest that the authors offer a comparative example with another similar study in terms of their sequence yield.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Files and Figures Summary of transcriptome assembly and annotation statistics doesn’t appear to be included in the Supplementary Table S4 file as the file name suggests. This file seems to contain only information on raw read and trimming/mapping results. These results should be included. Supplementary Fig 2 appears to be missing? Can’t seem to locate the transcriptome stats mentioned in the manuscript. Supplementary file Raw_Ct_peerJ.d0.xlsx it appears should be named Supplementary Table 3. Minor grammatical correction required with the use of hyphenation being inconsistent for “over- and under-expressed”. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Gene expression of benthic amphipods (genus: Diporeia) in relation to a circular ssDNA virus across two Laurentian Great Lakes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3810v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Arvind Varsani ·
Jul 23, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The MS is well written and easy to follow. The figures and tables are well laid out and i don not see any issues with this.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is good.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data is is statistically sound based on the methods used by the authors.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I enjoying reading this MS. It is well laid out and relatively easy to follow. I like the concept of the MS and the aim to address the poor knowledge of the viral dynamics of LM29173 in Diporeia sp. I have a few minor suggestions and questions 1) Abstract and else where: 0-3x10E6. 0x10E6 = 0. So perhaps change to "up to 3x10E6" 2) Lines 135-139: can this be put in a supplementary table to make it easy to follow? 3) Line 330-331: change "(PCV1; Allan & Ellis 2000); TTV; Okamoto 2009)" to "(PCV1; Allan & Ellis 2000; TTV; Okamoto 2009)" 4) In your transcriptome analsysis did you find other CRESS DNA viral transcripts or RNA viral transcripts that may be co-infecting Diporeia sp and thus some of the up or down regulation may be as a result of a complex of viruses rather an only LM29173? Cite this review as
Varsani A ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Gene expression of benthic amphipods (genus: Diporeia) in relation to a circular ssDNA virus across two Laurentian Great Lakes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3810v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 29, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
