Review History for Fish Ontology framework for taxonomy-based fish recognition [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Fish Ontology framework for taxonomy-based fish recognition To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 2nd, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 11th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on August 15th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 25th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mohammad Shamsur Rahman
·
Aug 25, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing all the suggestions and comments by the reviewers. I hope this work will enrich the taxonomy-based fish identification and the researchers in the field of taxonomy will be benefited.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 15, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mohammad Shamsur Rahman
·
Jul 11, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
A very good piece of work. Nice comments from two reviewers and suggestions for minor revisions. please do as per the reviewers comments. Reviewer 2 provided an annotated pdf file, so please carefully check all the suggestions.
label_author_1
Sven Kullander ·
Jun 16, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The English is fully comprehensible, but relatively basic and there are small errors throughout the text, eg. in the Abstract "The automated classification for unknown specimen is a feature not existing in other known ontologies." It needs some language revision/editing. Reference list is quite good
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment; I am not familiar with the more intricate aspects of ontology construction
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I have been reading this manuscript as one of the managing group of one of the major fish databaes , as editor, of fish papers, and as specialist on fish identification. Ontologies were very hot when Web 2.0 (the semantic web) was launched but after that there has been very limited progress. Particularly in fish systematics, the hierarchical system already in place is so self-contained that it needs no further elaboration; but at the same time ranks, names and diagnoses shift with advancing research. In systematics, including taxonomy, there are no fixed biological entities, and there is no common nomenclature for body parts. Part of the problem of building a descriptive ontology based on physiology and morphology is the lack of homology between structures with the same names, and for fish the fact that it is not a monophyletic group, so even slight homology requirements for terms is difficult. There are two examples in the MS that can be highlighted. The authors complain that Mammals fall under Sarcopterygians, but in fact mammals are sarcopterygians, and among sarcopteryians usually considered closest to some group of dipnoans. In the table below line 430 there is confusion about "jawless fishes". Actually Agnatha (lampreys, hagfish and ostracoderms) is not a monophyletic groip. Some taxa are actually stem gnathostomes (jawed fishes), which means the term is rather useless. In the same table there are confusions also about lobe-finned fish, which is the same as Sarcopterygii and not part of the Actinopterygii (the sistergroup) and not the same as Coelacanthiformes (which is a subgroup). These and many examples in the term list suggest considerable challenge for a wider fish ontology if it aims at any degree of precision. This is why ontologies tend either to be vey specialized+detailed (e.g. Zebrafish), or at very high level and not very precise (VTO). Trying to combine several ontologies into one, based on a popular book about fish just does not seem right to me. I would probably rather like lo build the ontology for the intended purpose and keep it resticted. Thus I see opportunities in FishBase (potential main adopter of a wider fish-related ontogeny) and GBIF for automatic mashup and crosslinking that could enhance the usefulness of the databases. Some of the problems with "floating" systematics are adressed in Balhoff, J.P. et al. 2013. A semantic model for species description applied to the ensign wasps (Hymenoptera: Evaniidae) of New Caledonia. Systematic Biology, 62: 639-659. It might be worth considering for adaptation to fishes. At least Hellman et al., already long outdated in the systematic portion is not a viable platform for a precise classification of fish anatomy and morphology or taxonomy. Consequently, looking at the usefulness, from a practical perspective, I am skeptical that this is ripe for semantic web designs, but it is interesting to look at. The core novelty is supposed to be the automated detection of unidentified specimens; which should be exactly equivalent to automatic detection of identified specimens. I doubt this is possible because for morphological identification it requires considerable diagnostic detail. I am frequently examining specimens that I am unable to identify because the published information about species in the same genus or family is insufficient or erroneous. There has been several attempts at automatic identification (or classification) of fish species using images, and there exists data from geometrical morphology that could be used for the purpose, but the application is very limited. Fish identification today is made by a combination of morphology and DNA (principally barcoding). For identification purposes there is a range of approaches available (Fischer, J. ed. 2013. Fish identification tools for biodiversity and fisheries assessments: review and guidance for decision-makers. FAO Fisheries and Aquaculture Technical Paper No. 585. Rome, FAO. 107 pp.) The FAO paper highlights the needs and options for fish identification and characterisation under many real-life conditions. I am not sure present ontology offers competition over conventional databases in providing morphological information on fish species. Both fails probably in adressing sex dimorphism and ontogeny, and natural language descriptions still hold power. The computational novelty of the FO is combining several related ontologies. But by basing them on a popular treatise on fishes and not providing a solution for shifting views of homology and taxonomy, I am not sure this is the way to go
Cite this review as
Kullander S ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Fish Ontology framework for taxonomy-based fish recognition (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3811v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 6, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is written in clear and professional English. There is sufficient literature reference provided. The results are self-contained and relevant to the research question. Figures and tables are professionally structured. Raw data is shared.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The paper's original primary research falls within the aims and scope of the journal. The research is well defined and relevant to the journal gap. The author have clearly identified a knowledge gap and the research fills it. The research is performed to a high technical standard to answer the research question. Methods used are described in a sufficient details to permit replication.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data in the paper is robust and controlled. Negative results are accepted and explained.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors have presented an important and novel research paper. There are some clarification required, as stated in the comments in the paper. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Fish Ontology framework for taxonomy-based fish recognition (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3811v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 2, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
