Review History for On growth and form of irregular coiled-shell of a terrestrial snail: Plectostoma concinnum (Fulton, 1901) (Mollusca: Caenogastropoda: Diplommatinidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History On growth and form of irregular coiled-shell of a terrestrial snail: Plectostoma concinnum (Fulton, 1901) (Mollusca: Caenogastropoda: Diplommatinidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 14th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 7th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on April 25th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 25th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
William Jungers
·
Apr 25, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your careful and thoughtful responses to issues and questions raised by the 2 reviewers. I believe your study is now acceptable for publication, and that is my formal recommendation. Congratulations.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 25, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
William Jungers
·
Apr 7, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Two reviews are now in hand, and both recommend acceptance with relatively minor revisions. Both reviewers make helpful suggestions that will improve your study, and they urge that some of your statements be phrased more carefully or conservatively (e.g., the impact of small sample sizes; better/more citations).
label_author_1
Kenneth De Baets ·
Mar 31, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors make several statements in the introduction which are not necessarily all broadly accepted or known, which need to be back-up (better) by citing some relevant references. Several statements are made without citing important or relevant literature (see my comments to the authors in the pdf) The authors should consider not only discussing similarities between heteromorph gastropods and ammonoids, but also potential differences in ecology and growth and how they might be relevant for their interpretations. The term "heteromorph" should be more clearly defined for gastropods (and other shelled molluscs) as from time to time, the reader might not be aware that the term might differ between different groups and that the authors are sometimes discussing ammonoids too (see comments in pdf)
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design seems to be in order as far as i could verify. I missed a small word on how similar the environmental conditions of the selected rock surfaces had to be to be selected.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
It would be better to use the spearman (rank) correlation for all the correlations (even the normally distributed ones) as it is more suitable for monotonic (including non-linear and linear) functions and directly comparable with one another.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Some additional remarks can be found in the pdf Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
De Baets K ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "On growth and form of irregular coiled-shell of a terrestrial snail: Plectostoma concinnum (Fulton, 1901) (Mollusca: Caenogastropoda: Diplommatinidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.383v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Derek Moulton ·
Apr 7, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is well-written and coherently structured, with sufficient introduction and background.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question is clearly defined, and the research conducted in a thorough and rigorous manner to high technical standard.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are generally well supported. However, I do see a few issues in this regard: 1. Fig 4, at a glance, seems to demonstrate very little; that is visually the data do not seem to show any correlation between ontogeny axis and growth rate. I understand that statistically, you can find a correlation. But, given that the data point with the smallest growth rate is at the point where you argue the growth rate to be highest, I wonder whether more tempered, less definitive statements should be used. For instance, “These data suggest that O. concinnum may follow a S-shaped growth curve” seems more appropriate than “These data demonstrate that O. concinnum follows a S-shaped growth curve” 2. Fig 5A potentially shows an interesting trend: not so much that the aperture perimeter increases linearly, which I don’t find surprising, but that the rate of increase would be the same for different specimens. However, given the very small sample size, I don’t think this actually can be claimed. In fact, comparing specimen GK1-88 and GK1-94, GK1-88 is increasing at a lower rate. Hence, I think the small sample size should be addressed and the rate that is given on line 409 can at best be understood as an average. 3. You mention that you find no relation between the number of ribs and shell size, as characterised by ontogeny axis length. However, I suspect that aperture size must play an important role as well (n.b. comment 2). If you followed two shells with the same ontogeny axis length and the same aperture size/shape (and thus in the same growth stage), would you see the same rib frequency? This seems an important aspect, and one that probably cannot properly be addressed without a larger sample size of aperture size. Without such an investigation though, I’m not sure the statement that ‘the number of ribs varies substantially between individuals of similar shell size’ (line 591) is well supported.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a very useful study for understanding shell growth and form. It is thorough and well-conducted, the type of study that hopefully becomes more common. It also provides a firm basis on which to connect to theoretical models of shell form. For instance, within the spire stage, the growth is very regular, with well-defined aperture increase and mantle rotation. Such rates map directly to a growth model we developed [1], and it is very interesting to be able to see quantifiable rates that can be fed into such a model. 1. Moulton, D. E., & Goriely, A. (2012). Surface growth kinematics via local curve evolution. Journal of Mathematical Biology, 68(1-2), 81–108. Cite this review as
Moulton D ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "On growth and form of irregular coiled-shell of a terrestrial snail: Plectostoma concinnum (Fulton, 1901) (Mollusca: Caenogastropoda: Diplommatinidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.383v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 14, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
