Review History for Evaluation of ddRADseq for reduced representation metagenome sequencing [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evaluation of ddRADseq for reduced representation metagenome sequencing To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 15th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 14th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on August 31st, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 31st, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Corey Nislow
·
Aug 31, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your point-by-point responses to my comments and those of the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 31, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Corey Nislow
·
Aug 14, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please provide a point-by-point response to the reviewer's questions. Also please bear in mind my own comments, listed here 1.The reported data represents (to our knowledge) the first metagenomic adaptation of the traditional ddRADseq protocol on real microbiome samples: Avoid claims of priority unless necessary to make your point. 2.When combined with careful fragment size selection, ddRADseq profiling could 190 have value as a cost effective means…: Please provide a tabulated breakdown of a cost comparison 3.Even if enzyme choice leads to some bias in metagenomic ddRADseq libraries, other sources of bias may be more significant: list the other sources WITH citations 4.intractable due scale or complexity: This is a sentence fragment 5.Fig 1 smallest fonts should be increased considerably
label_author_1
Surya Saha ·
Aug 7, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors have used MetaPhlAn which uses clade-specific marker genes to classify sequencing reads so we know that protein coding genes are identified from the ddRADseq protocol, as also mentioned in the paper. The primary motivation for WGS metagenomics is the potential sampling of the entire genome instead of just a marker gene, for e.g. from a 16S survey. It would be useful if results from metagenomic assembly of reads from each sample using data from WGS and ddRADseq were compared. The reduced representation has been reported to skew results [1, 2] for certain analysis. Biases have been explored within the context of GC% but it will be worth evaluating the utility of sequences from ddRADseq protocol for metagenomic assembly References: 1.Arnold, B., Corbett-Detig, R. B., Hartl, D., et al. (2013) Mol. Ecol., 22, 3179–3190, RADseq underestimates diversity and introduces genealogical biases due to nonrandom haplotype sampling. 2.Lowry, D. B., Hoban, S., Kelley, J. L., et al. (2017) Mol. Ecol. Resour., 17, 142–152, Breaking RAD: an evaluation of the utility of restriction site-associated DNA sequencing for genome scans of adaptation.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors propose a version of the double digest restriction site associated DNA sequencing (ddRADseq) protocol for metagenomic profiling. The primary advantage of this method over standard whole genome shotgun (WGS) metagenomics is the ability to profile a large number of samples at a relatively low cost. The restriction enzyme combination of NlaIII and HpyCH4IV is proposed after evaluating enzymes on a set of reference genomes with a range of GC%. The results from ddRADseq were shown to be comparable to those from whole genome shotgun analysis. The manuscript is well-written and presented clearly. An approximate cost benefit analysis of ddRADseq and WGS for taxonomic identification will be useful for prospective users. The metrics for comparison can include the library preparation and sequencing costs besides qualitative information such as the number of species and abundance identified from each method. Figure 3: It was a little difficult for me to interpret the plot with overlapping data points. It might help to use the same shape for shotgun and ddRADseq data points. Cite this review as
Saha S ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evaluation of ddRADseq for reduced representation metagenome sequencing (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3837v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 13, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This study is a pilot work done on three individuals without any statistical significance. Although it is a preliminary analysis of the metagenomic profiling of the ddRADseq, I find this study relevant for large scale metagenome wide studies in a cost effective manner. I have three suggestions: 1) Make the legend descriptive for Figure 2. There are two heat maps for both a and b. Please distinguish them. 2) There is no mention of supplemental information in the main article, please indicate in the methods section of the main manuscript that the authors have supplemental information as well. 3) The first two lines of the introduction are copy and paste of the abstract. Please don't use the same exact texts for both abstract and introduction, modify it accordingly. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Evaluation of ddRADseq for reduced representation metagenome sequencing (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3837v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 15, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
