Review History for Retrospective cohort study of anti-tumor necrosis factor agent use in a veteran population [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Retrospective cohort study of anti-tumor necrosis factor agent use in a veteran population To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 17th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 21st, 2014. The first revision was submitted on April 26th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 26th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Yeong Yeh Lee
·
Apr 26, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Authors have adequately addressed the concerns raised by reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 26, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Yeong Yeh Lee
·
Apr 21, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The comments from reviewers have been favorable. Small sample size and retrospective design are limitations. Also, the findings can only be applied to a specific VA population, which composed largely of white males. However, the paper did report some important issues on the use of anti-TNF agents. Further larger studies will be needed.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 17, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Line 95-97 (last sentence): Please clarify if this reference point giving average annual cost per patient in the US for Crohns disease. Did this reference (Bodger 2002) not include the use of anti-TNF agents being used as a part of the disease management during the study period in order for you to show the difference in use of biologics to expenditures? (A study by Kappelman et al Gastroenterology 2008;1907-1913 reports a different number and proportion, but they did include anti-TNFs in the study period.)
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Line 129. Did the patients have to be on the anti-TNF agent for a specified period of time in order to be included in the study? If not, please provide a brief summation of how long anti-TNF therapy is usually given for efficacy to be determined in the background section. Line 203: What was the average duration of anti-TNF therapy for patients in the non-responder group? Line 204: Please clarify, when you say 15 cases had infections that did not require hospitalization, are those 15 unique patients? Or were any of the cases, repeated by a patient with 2 or 3 cases/episodes? Is this infection rate similar to those reported in the literature with anti-TNF use?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Lines 215-217: Regarding the missing data for the 12 patients, was the data deemed clinically insignificant data to determine the response vs non-response outcome or confirm adverse effect data? If so, please indicate as such. Otherwise, please clarify how you categorized those patients into your analysis? Were they then put in the non-responder group?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
It was a very well written paper with many robust statistical analysis performed to support the results and discussion. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Retrospective cohort study of anti-tumor necrosis factor agent use in a veteran population (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.385v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Humberto Sifuentes ·
Apr 18, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript by Bounthavong et al. provided a nice overview of the use of anti-TNF agents in the VA setting. The manuscript provided an adequate introduction and background and demonstrates that the material presented is unique and novel.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The method section is adequately explained with sufficient detail. The definitions for clinical efficacy seem to be vague. The difference between responders and partial responders seem to be subjective. The use of concomitant immunomodulators was mentioned but not included in the secondary aims. Patients on comcomitant immunomodulators for example infliximab + azathioprine will have different outcomes than individuals on monotherapy with anti-TNF agents. No mention was made regarding the severity of disease for example in Crohn's disease patients with mild to moderate disease will respond differently than patients with moderate to severe disease.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The overall design and primary aims are clearly stated. The results of the study are limited by the sample size. It is difficult to generalize the findings of the study based on the the findings of 92 patients and even smaller sub groups (27 Crohn's disease and 24 RA).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall it is a nice study that attempts to provide some important information in the VA setting. The methods and results can be made more robust by collecting more data. Consider collecting more than one year of data. Looking at concomitant use of immunomodulators. Cite this review as
Sifuentes H ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Retrospective cohort study of anti-tumor necrosis factor agent use in a veteran population (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.385v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 17, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
