Review History for Exceptional soft tissues preservation in a mummified frog-eating Eocene salamander [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Exceptional soft tissues preservation in a mummified frog-eating Eocene salamander To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 22nd, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 30th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on September 6th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 7th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Virginia Abdala
·
Sep 7, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your consideration of all suggestions of the reviewer. The ms is ready for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 6, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Virginia Abdala
·
Aug 30, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers consider that this is an interesting manuscript, and I agree with them. Please, take their suggestions in full consideration so that we can proceed with the publication process.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 28, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The report is written mainly clear English, but see below. Literature is appropriate. Figs are excellent. No clear hypotheses but not necessary in this report. Considerable speculation but generally ok with me.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Not relevant
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I think the descriptive information and especially the visuals are of high quality.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I would tuck the information gathered from this manuscript in that part of my brain labeled “Cabinet of Curiosities”. The phosphorized fossil is remarkably well preserved and the authors have derived a lot of information from the scans. I am interested in salamander anatomy, and accordingly enjoyed reading about there methods and interpretations. What I take home from this manuscript is that under certain circumstances, not well understood, amazing preservation of anatomical detail is possible in fossils. That is it. It is not known exactly where the fossil was found and so taphonomic details are lacking and speculation results. Line 69 is an incomplete sentence and the entire complex sentence would be better as several sentences. Technical English is best in short declarative sentences. I think the anatomical inferences are generally good and justified. I think the authors are correct regarding muscles, lung, cloacal glands and even the partial frog in the gut. The frog in the gut of a relatively small salamander is a surprise. Salamanders generally do not eat frogs or even tadpoles (I can add Ambystoma gracile to the short list of salamanders known to eat metamorphosing frogs). In this instance the frog seems to be partially dismembered, or has been digested in a peculiarly selective manner). Even without the lung evidence, this is not a plethodontid on the basis of vertebral anatomy and especially the very long and well-developed ribs. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Exceptional soft tissues preservation in a mummified frog-eating Eocene salamander (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3861v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Pavel Skutschas ·
Aug 29, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The paper is a valuable contribution and I strongly support its publication in the PeerJ (after very minor revision).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I have no major suggestions on the paper. I enjoyed the opportunity to read this MS and I look forward to see it published. My minor suggestions for the improvement of the MS are listed below: “Abstract”, line 26, I recommend to add “juvenile” before “frog”. It is important to provide a characteristic of a prey (= the swallowed frog was juvenile). “Introduction”, line 47. Please, clarify why “external features” are “notable” (e.g. notable for taxonomic identification?) “Results”, “Lung”, line 156. I recommend to remove the phrase “(i.e. within the rib cage)” because salamanders do not have a rib cage (this structure is typical for amniotes) “Discussion”, “Exceptional preservation”, line 193, I recommend to use the name Vertebrata (Latin) or vertebrates (English), but not Vertebrates. I waive all anonymity for my review. The authors are welcome to contact me directly should they have questions or anything they wish to discuss. Pavel Skutschas Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Skutschas P ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Exceptional soft tissues preservation in a mummified frog-eating Eocene salamander (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3861v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 22, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
