Review History for Multigene phylogeny of the scyphozoan jellyfish family Pelagiidae reveals that the common U.S. Atlantic sea nettle comprises two distinct species (Chrysaora quinquecirrha and C. chesapeakei) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Multigene phylogeny of the scyphozoan jellyfish family Pelagiidae reveals that the common U.S. Atlantic sea nettle comprises two distinct species ( Chrysaora quinquecirrha and C. chesapeakei ) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 12th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 11th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on August 29th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 8th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Robert Toonen
·
Sep 8, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Having read through the revisions and your responses to the referees, I am happy to move your article forward into press.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 29, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Robert Toonen
·
Jul 11, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both referees agree that the manuscript is interesting, sound and worthy of publication, but each also makes a number of suggestions for minor revisions prior to final acceptance. I do not expect any of these revisions to be difficult to incorporate, and I look forward to seeing your revised manuscript returned.
label_author_1
Andre Morandini ·
Jun 26, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The text presents an important contribution to the understanding of the diversity of jellyfishes from US east coast, by presenting new and detailed data on a well-known thought to be a single species (until now named Chrysaora quinquecirrha). I am not a native English-speaker, but the manuscript is well written, and the language used is very clear throughout the text. “Introduction” section provides background on the topic and included traditional and updated literature. The structure of the text is in accordance with the standards, but I suggest the authors to move the “Systematics” section before the “Discussion”. Figures and tables are of high quality and essential for helping to clarify the results, unless when noted.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methods were clearly described and are updated with the available literature. Conclusions are well supported by the data presented.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Although there was an indication in the literature about the occurrence of two varieties of the jellyfish studied, the authors provided robust data to identify and sort them out. The nomenclatural issues were carefully followed and the main result (species name validation) is sustained based on the articles of the Code. Summing up, my evaluation of the manuscript is that it corresponds to an important contribution to Marine Biology in general as it provides advances in the field, especially unravelling the identity of a significant jellyfish species of the Atlantic US coast.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In general the authors were cautious in not proposing new names for the different groups found among the genus Chrysaora. I think that additional data must be gathered to perform such big changes in the classification of the family. There are some minor corrections and suggestions performed directly on the PDF file, summarized as follows in order of importance: 1) holotype specimen must be deposited in a well-known collection, as well as other comparison individuals; 2) provide further data on the Senegalese specimens (images as supplementary material would be welcome); 3) correct some references regarding format and some data. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Morandini AC ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Multigene phylogeny of the scyphozoan jellyfish family Pelagiidae reveals that the common U.S. Atlantic sea nettle comprises two distinct species (Chrysaora quinquecirrha and C. chesapeakei) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3863v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Brenden Holland ·
Jul 7, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
PeerJ Multigene phylogeny of the scyphozoan jellyfish family Pelagiidae reveals that the common U.S. Atlantic sea nettle comprises two distinct species (Chrysaora quinquecirrha and C. chesapeakei) (#17919) Brief summary This study seeks to reconstruct the phylogenetic relationships among 4 pelagiid genera and 11 of 13 species of Chrysaora. In addition collections were made along the US Atlantic and Gulf coast of C. quinquicirrha, from which molecular, gross anatomical and cnidomic data were collected. The stated goals of the authors was to clarify taxonomic status among genera and species of this group of nuisance species. The molecular approach used nuclear 28S and mtDNA COI and 16S. Morphological analyses focused on tentacle and lappet number, oral arm length and nematocyst dimensions. Results suggest that C. quinquicirrha is polyphyletic, and comprises two distinct lineages one from the Gulf and the other from the Atlantic. This conclusion is supported by molecular as well as morphological evidence. This paper is certainly interesting scientifically as well as provides an important contribution to applied resource management. The phylogenetic analysis presented is technically sound, and the resulting systematic claims are convincing. Figures are of sufficient quality, including maps, photos and trees. The systematics sections is about 11 pages, raising the editorial question of whether this section is appropriate for the journal PeerJ, or might be included as an appendix, otherwise this could be more appropriate for a taxonomic journal. I have made a number of minor grammatical suggestions and minor corrections of typos. Specific Comments L 122 Please italicize “Sanderia” L153 Use of the small unprimed italicized letter implies that the heme prosthetic group is in a hemochrome linkage, and a lower-case italicized letter, e.g., c', should be used. L184 Italicize “c” L201 and L203 Please write out the NIH DNA database as “GenBank” L219 “jModelTest” L328 I’d suggest rewording “two distinct clades that were highly diverged” “two distinct, highly divergent clades” L332 & 335 and throughout Please be consistent: “Figs” vs. “Figures” L337 Replace “highly-supported” with “well-supported” L344 Replace “observed” with more appropriate term, such as “evaluated” or “examined” L345-6 “were observed for 20 quantitative and qualitative macromorphological characters either taken from Gershwin and Collins (2002) or new to this study (maximum oral arm length)” This sentence mentions 20 traits, and lists a single trait that was unique to this study. It remains unclear to the reader why a single character is listed, this could lead to confusion as to whether this single trait listed is the only trait used that was not one from the Gershwin and Collins 2002 paper, whereas if those traits that fall into both categories are indicated in a table, perhaps simply referring to the table would be more clear at this point. L361 In: “<~1.5%” inclusion of the symbol “~” seems awkward, does removing this symbol drastically alter the meaning? If not I’d suggest deleting it. L374 “all those sequenced from” this is admittedly a bit of a pet peeve of mine, but to state that “individuals” are sequenced is inaccurate, strikes me a slang, since DNA, or gene fragments are sequenced rather than jellyfish, or individuals being sequenced. I’d suggest rewording to something like “jellyfish included in the molecular analysis” or something along these lines that more precisely reflects the author’s intended meaning. L423 Replace “a paraphyletic Chrysaora.” with “paraphyly of Chrysaora.” L434 Should a question mark be added following “limited” L475 “therefore, conclusions based on these sequences should be made with care.” Why? Perhaps consider explaining, for instance “because the geographic provenance of these individuals is unclear”, or what ever the reasoning. L484 The following sentence: “C. quinquecirrha occurred in two well-differentiated” opens with an abbreviation of the genus, whereas starting a sentence with an abbreviation should be avoided. This is an editorial, and grammatical decision. L596 “and” not italicized L604 and 608 Include “(MBA)” after first mention of “Monterey Bay Aquarium”. L634 “(Figure 4 and 6)” please follow journal guidelines and be consistent in the manner in which two figures are referred to, there are instances where the following is used “Figures 4, 6” Cite this review as
Holland BS ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Multigene phylogeny of the scyphozoan jellyfish family Pelagiidae reveals that the common U.S. Atlantic sea nettle comprises two distinct species (Chrysaora quinquecirrha and C. chesapeakei) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3863v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 12, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
