Review History for The role of a water bug, Sigara striata, in freshwater food webs [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The role of a water bug, Sigara striata , in freshwater food webs To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 7th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 1st, 2014. The first revision was submitted on April 30th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 30th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dezene Huber
·
Apr 30, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you once again for submitting your MS to PeerJ. The initial submission was well-written and the reviewers both concurred that the research and interpretation were robust. You have adequately and completely responded to their minor concerns and comments in your revision, and I judge that this MS is now acceptable for publication in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 30, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dezene Huber
·
Mar 1, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This is a mainly well-written and concise MS in which the author provides good evidence for predatory activity by a water bug and about predation upon the water bug. This type of natural history information is vital to better understanding of ecosystems, and it is only obtained by careful studies of this sort. Both reviewers recommend minor revisions. And, having read the MS, I can recommend the same. Both reviewers mention the use of the term "keystone species." The author should seriously consider this particular criticism. One reviewer also mentions some small concerns with the analysis, and in particular that one of the predatory species was misclassified. This should also be addressed. There are a few other details that the reviewers have pointed out an that the author should attend to as well. I'd like to thank the author for submitting a good MS to PeerJ, and I'd like to thank both reviewers for their work in assessing this report.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 24, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Manuscript Number: 2014:02:1468:0:0:REVIEW Title: The role of a water bug, Sigara striata, in freshwater food webs: a potential keystone species? Authors: Jan Klecka This paper tries to determine that the role of corixid water boatman using two predation experiments in the lab. Results of experiments suggest that Sigara prefers chironomids and is preferred by ambush predator. The statistical approach is very interesting. This paper dealt with interesting issue concerning competition and may contribute to advance of community ecology of temporary pools. However, the authors should consider some points as below. The keystone in the title is an exaggerated word for this study because the authors did not estimate the role of Sigara using enclosure and exclosure to impact aquatic community. The authors just estimate their role in the laboratory experiment. Should consider the word “keystone”. Although I do not understand the Bayesian methods well, I worried about the relationship between variables such as multicollinearity. Does foraging mode and feeding mode of predator have any correlation? In addition, Dytiscus marginalis L3 is suctorial not chewing. Check and reanalyze them as necessary. P. 3, L. 21: in Klecka and Boukal (2012, 2013).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
It's good desgn.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
These findings are important for aquatic ecology.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Manuscript Number: 2014:02:1468:0:0:REVIEW Title: The role of a water bug, Sigara striata, in freshwater food webs: a potential keystone species? Authors: Jan Klecka This paper tries to determine that the role of corixid water boatman using two predation experiments in the lab. Results of experiments suggest that Sigara prefers chironomids and is preferred by ambush predator. The statistical approach is very interesting. This paper dealt with interesting issue concerning competition and may contribute to advance of community ecology of temporary pools. However, the authors should consider some points as below. The keystone in the title is an exaggerated word for this study because the authors did not estimate the role of Sigara using enclosure and exclosure to impact aquatic community. The authors just estimate their role in the laboratory experiment. Should consider the word “keystone”. Although I do not understand the Bayesian methods well, I worried about the relationship between variables such as multicollinearity. Does foraging mode and feeding mode of predator have any correlation? In addition, Dytiscus marginalis L3 is suctorial not chewing. Check and reanalyze them as necessary. P. 3, L. 21: in Klecka and Boukal (2012, 2013). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "The role of a water bug, Sigara striata, in freshwater food webs (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.389v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Kevin Smith ·
Feb 28, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The basic reporting is clear and competent. There are a few locations where articles seem to be missing (e.g., "a", "the"), but these do not affect the clarity of readability of the manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is very simple and reasonable given the stated goals. The research question is clear, and the methods would allow easy reproduction of the study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Although I cannot comment on the validity of the technical details of analyses since I do not use Bayesian statistical methods myself, the fundamental principles of the statistical modeling are sound. The choice of variables and treatment of the results is appropriate. The figures and tables are appropriate and useful, and are clear and legible. Some content of the Discussion is redundant with the material in the Introduction, but given the short length this is not overbearing. The results and their interpretation are straightforward and the author deals with them appropriately. The importance of the results is appropriately framed and not over-stated. My only suggestion for the Discussion would be to include a section in which the author could speculate or comment on if and how food web relations among Sigara, its prey, and its predators, may differ between this tightly-controlled laboratory experiment and natural habitats. I also think the invocation of the keystone concept in the title is unwarranted, given that I see no evidence for a keystone role and the concept is not discussed elsewhere in the manuscript. Similarly, in the Abstract there is (reasonable) speculation that Sigara may be less vulnerable to searching predators because it is a fast swimmer, but I don't see a supporting section in the manuscript. I suggest that any results/interpretation in the Abstract should appear in the manuscript itself.
Cite this review as
Smith KG ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "The role of a water bug, Sigara striata, in freshwater food webs (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.389v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 7, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
