Review History for Personality change after Internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy for depression [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Personality change after Internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy for depression To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 30th, 2012 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 22nd, 2013. The first revision was submitted on January 25th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 26th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
C. Robert Cloninger
·
Jan 26, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revision is nearly acceptable. There is just one issue to correct, which is very easy. On page 6, the TCI is still described as "revised TCI" when it is actually just TCI, and you note shortly thereafter that it is the true-false version. Just delete the word "revised". Since this is so minimal, you may just resubmit with this change authorized, and I'll notify the PeerJ staff that it is accepted already conditional on this change. Thank you for your reasonable and timely cooperation.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 25, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
C. Robert Cloninger
·
Jan 22, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address the attached reviewer comments, which were based on the original submission. These reviewer comments involve minor revisions, but the clarification of statistics and more information about demographics will help clarify the study for the reader. In addition, as you know we had an offline discussion regarding the description of the test you administered, as well as the copyright clearance for that test. As you address the reviewer's concerns, please also edit your submission to reflect the outcome of our discussions. This could mean updating the revision you worked on subsequent to the two reviews below. In particular many of the comments of Reviewer 2 require some further minor revisions to clarify statistics and add demographics. Most of the recommendations about the TCI from Reviewer 1 and 2 are already addressed in your reworked manuscript but you may find other elements helpful as well.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 5, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
It is an interesting article were the authors report a study of depression and personality change after internet delivered cognitive behavior therapy. This focuses changes in BDI-II and personality based on Cloninger's Temperament and Character Inventory. The introduction provides a good foundation and justification for the current analysis. The authors list 2 clear main hypotheses in the introduction. Subjects were selected from an online screening fulfilling quite strict criteria. Consistent with some previous literature, personality changes was mainly found in the dimensions of “HA” and “SD”.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The main short-coming in the article is the uncertainty about the TCI version used in the study. In materials and methods they describe the use of the revised TCI version but neither the description nor the results support that they have used the revised version. A second short-coming is if they have included age and gender into the analysis since temperament and especially character dimensions are affected and has to be taken into account.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
There is no description under Materials & Methods of the internet based version of the TCI they refer to which arouses questions about reliability and validity - as the authors also noted? However, they present new and interesting data about alternative treatment for people suffering from MDD.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In the summary the authors write “Results: There were significant changes on HA and SD after ICBT.” and “The changes in personality seem related to improvement in depression rather than a direct effect of ICBT.” This seems to be related to page 4, par 2, line 4: "The aims ... were twofold ... Secondly to compare differences in personality changes between treatment responders and non-responders. 1. My question is: Is there a correlation between "changes" and severity of MDD, and/or SD? 2. A minor comment: In order to make get a better agreement between the "second aim" here and "The secondary aim" on p. 11, par 1 I suggest something like this for the one on page 4: "to compare differences in changes in personality dimensions ..." 3. In Discussion par. 4 it says: “Larger effects than expected were found within the control group, with a substantial amount of responders (15.8%) and a decrease on 1.7 HA.” Maybe better with "a decrease of 1.7 raw scores on HA". Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Personality change after Internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy for depression (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.39v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Janet Spittlehouse ·
Dec 12, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_2
It would be useful to have a table showing the demographic characteristics of the participants (age, sex etc), MADRS-S score at baseline, comorbidities and psychopharmacological treatment.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Please explain further how the F statistics for ICBT, response and their interaction have been calculated.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No observer rated depression symptom assessments were performed. This should be discussed as a limitation. The lowest depression score to be included in the study on MADRS-S was 15. The participants have mild or moderate depression so the findings are only applicable to this group; another limitation that hasn’t been discussed. Differences between the responders and non-responders regarding baseline BDI-II and MADRS-S should be reported and discussed. The inclusion and exclusion criteria have not been discussed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I have previously reviewed this paper for another journal. Many of the comments from myself and the other reviewer have been addressed but there are still some issues to be rectified. I recommend that, in future studies, you use a more up-to-date version of the TCI. Cite this review as
Spittlehouse JK ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Personality change after Internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy for depression (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.39v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 30, 2012 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
