Review History for Complete mitochondrial genome sequences of the northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) and the barred owl (Strix varia; Aves: Strigiformes: Strigidae) confirm the presence of a duplicated control region [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Complete mitochondrial genome sequences of the northern spotted owl ( Strix occidentalis caurina ) and the barred owl ( Strix varia ; Aves: Strigiformes: Strigidae) confirm the presence of a duplicated control region To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 31st, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 17th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on September 12th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 18th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michael Wink
·
Sep 18, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Congratulations. The revision is ok by now and is accepted. Thanks for publishing in PeerJ Greetings Michael Wink Academic editor
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 12, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Wink
·
Aug 17, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors this is a well written ms, but it needs some finetuning as you can see from the comments of the reviewers. Regards Michael Wink Academic editor
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 9, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
gel picture really needed?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
some details could be in an appendix
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
when repeatly mentioning a software product or mito-genome, no need to cite again numbers in tables should be right-justified line 101: able to explore Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Complete mitochondrial genome sequences of the northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) and the barred owl (Strix varia; Aves: Strigiformes: Strigidae) confirm the presence of a duplicated control region (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3901v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 13, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In general, I found the manuscript to be well written; even some of the denser parts of the Methods section were clearly worded and easy to follow. The figures are of high quality, but some could be cut (or combined, or moved to Supplementary Materials) without significantly impacting the manuscript; see detailed comments below. Raw sequences have been deposited in NCBI’s Sequence Read Archive, but I was unable to find Genbank accession numbers in the text for the two new sequences produced for Strix o. caurina and Strix varia; these should be provided.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research described in this manuscript is original and adds to the growing body of work on avian control region evolution. Extensive detail is provided in the main text on the methods used, with further details given in the Supplementary Materials. If anything, the Methods text could be trimmed, moving more of the nitty-gritty to Supplementary Materials.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Overall, the authors make good use of their data to address questions outlined in the Introduction. Employment of both next-gen and Sanger sequencing techniques was critical to obtaining accurate mt genome sequences for these owls. In fact, the authors could further emphasize the fact that their study represents a cautionary case in which a next-gen-based assembly resulted in an incorrect mt genome sequence. Given the prevalence of next-gen sequencing, combined with the fact that control region duplications have been found in a growing number of disparate avian taxa, it is important to consider the possibility of control region duplications whenever sequencing avian mt genomes.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I would suggest re-thinking the sub-headings used within the Methods section. Since you have separate descriptions regarding the sequencing/assembly of the two species’ genomes, it would be nice if each description were labeled as such, and the two descriptions were structured (divided) into consistent sub-sections. My detailed comments are listed below by line number. l.36 At the end of the abstract, you might want to add a sentence regarding the shortcomings of short-read sequencing/assembly methods in cases like yours. l.42 “which led to” l.43 “of the chicken is representative” l.100 Technically, you can’t cite (Hanna et al. 2017) in this way, since it is not published. More correct: (Hanna et al. unpublished) or (Hanna et al. in prep.) l.160 “amplify a slightly longer” l.184 Did the length of the longer PCR product jive with the (incorrect) Illumina-based assembly? l.209-214 The purpose of this comparison was not clear to me. l.227-256 This section could be moved, so that it is presented after the description of the S.varia assembly. l.227-228 The alligator sequence comparison isn’t mentioned/discussed later on in the text, so it’s not clear why it’s included here. The alligator sequence is included in Figure 6, but as noted in the figure comment below, it could be cut without detracting from the conclusions. l.238-240 See previous comment. l.247-248 See above. l.256 “Nuclear pseudogenation” might be a better term here, since you are referring to pseudogenes that appear in the nuclear genome. There are also pseudogenes of mt genes that appear within rearranged mt genomes (e.g., see Eberhard & Wright 2016). l.258 See previous comment. Related comment: Is there any evidence of mitochondrial pseudogenes, such as those found in some parrots (see Eberhard & Wright 2016)? There seems to be a short stretch of sequence on the 5’ side of CR1, before the hairpin sequence; any chance that it’s similar to tRNA-Glu or ND6? l.287-292 It might be better to present the primary sequence source first, and then describe the secondary one. l.299 It would be helpful to briefly explain that the two contigs are. l.421 Is it possible to discount the hypothesis that the long fragment was a numt? (or, to really play devil’s advocate, is it possible to determine that one or both of the fragments are indeed mitochondrial?) l.446-447 This is interesting (though I don’t have any idea why this might be)! l.453 As someone who works with other (non-owl) birds, I found these divergences to be quite high for taxa that can hybridize. Are these levels of divergence typical for owls? l.461-462 Identical or nearly identical CRs (e.g., as observed in snakes, e.g., Kumazawa et al. 1996, MBE 13:1242-1254) could also cause assembly problems. l.466 “complete and accurate assembly” l.469 “inferred the presence” l.471 “but rather deduced that a duplication was present from the appearance” l.475 “The mitochondrial genomes…” l.502 “as found in some other avian taxa” l.508 Not just Amazona parrots; also found in several other parrot taxa with independently evolved CR duplications (see Eberhard & Wright 2016) l.517 “a proper phylogenetic test of this hypothesis, with increased taxon sampling, is warranted” Table 1 At least one of the primers listed in the table was designed by other researchers (e.g., N1, Barrowclough et al. 1999), and this should be noted. It would be good to add a column for references, or add footnotes, to cite sources for primer sequences, and also note which were designed by the authors. Table 2 Some of the information presented in the table (e.g., Alignment score, Entropy) are not discussed in the text, and don’t seem crucial to the results/discussion. Table 3 Per earlier comment (l.256), “Nuclear pseudogenes (Numts)…” Two of the columns, E-value and Bit score, provide information that is never discussed in the text, so could be eliminated. If they are not cut, then Bit score needs to be defined in the caption. Figures 1&2 Both of these are beautifully drawn, but are largely redundant; could be replaced with a single figure that shows gene order surrounding the CRs. Figures 3&4 The figure caption should also state that the locations of the goose hairpin and primer binding sites are shown. To streamline the figure a bit, the yellow boxes labeled “control region 1” and “control region 2” could be cut, since the regions are already labeled on the left. Figure 5 The description given in the text is probably enough, so it’s not necessary to include this figure. If desired, it could be moved to Supplementary Information. Figure 6 The caption refers to panels B & C, but no such labels appear in the figure. Although the information presented in the figure is not incorrect, it illustrates only a subset of the gene orders that have been thus far documented for birds; the purpose of illustrating the owl gene order within an incomplete context is not clear. I would recommend a figure that illustrates the gene order around the owl CRs (as suggested in lieu of Figs. 1&2), and then cite (and discuss, if you wish) other papers that have provided more complete discussion of mt gene order rearrangements in birds (e.g., Mindell et al. 1998, and more recently, Gibb et al. 2007 and Eberhard & Wright 2016). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Complete mitochondrial genome sequences of the northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina) and the barred owl (Strix varia; Aves: Strigiformes: Strigidae) confirm the presence of a duplicated control region (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3901v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 31, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
