Review History for Illegal use of natural resources in federal protected areas of the Brazilian Amazon [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Illegal use of natural resources in federal protected areas of the Brazilian Amazon To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 19th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 4th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on September 14th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 18th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Patricia Gandini
·
Sep 18, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have included the suggestions made by the reviewers and by the editor
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 14, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Patricia Gandini
·
Aug 4, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please follow the reviewers suggestions carefully, specially improving figures legends and the conclusion section. Do not repeat your results, Try to use this section to enhance them, as one of the reviewers suggest explain for example how your findings will improve government measurments to prevent biodiversity losses.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 20, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I find the overall findings valid, however I believe it would be interesting to add in the analysis the temporal trend of the illegal use of natural resources and if this changes over time i.e. if there is an increase or decrease. Moreover, I wonder if the authors have looked at the correlation between the illegal use of natural resources and law enforcement activity (number of guards, monthly patrol etc) . Beside the PA protection category, does the presence of law enforcement activity have an impact on the number of illegal activities over time? PA protection category is not always correlated with law enforcement effectiveness. These additional analyses would help to understand why there so many illegal activities and if law enforcement and/or the park management is efficient and effective. The take-home message would be beneficial for both managers and decision-makers. Moreover, I have an analytical concern about including both terrestrial and coastal/marine reserves – I expect that fishing activity is more present in coastal/marine areas and hunting activity more present in terrestrial areas. It would be good if this could be explored and included in the analysis. There are many repetitions in the discussion section about the description of the results (the result section already includes it). This needs to be better structured. Moreover, I would suggest to add more literature about protection measures against illegal use of natural resources.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This manuscript was nicely written and interesting to biodiversity conservation and protected areas management. I have highlighted a few areas that could benefit from some clarification or rewording, which are listed below: L123. IBGE, could you give the whole word Instituto Brasiliero de Geografia e Estatistica L131. Established is repeated twice L140-141. Can the authors add the total area (in square km) of the PAs studies overall the ones that are managed by the federal government? L142. Can the authors add somewhere the percentage of grassland and savanna per park? Would be good a table with the PAs and the % of habitat cover types L145 Brazilian System of Conservation Units L146-148. Information not necessary L181. 1 Km2 instead of from 1km by 1 km L181. 200 m2 instead of up to 200m by 200m L207. Please add table with results from correlations L215. Would be nice have subtitles like in the methodology section L271. Threatens L294. Reference missing L314…in order to achieve just an effective conservation, it is necessary to involve local… Table S2. Please add a clear description of each category of illegal activity Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Illegal use of natural resources in federal protected areas of the Brazilian Amazon (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3902v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 28, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript’s content is relevant given the lack of studies that contemplate the illegal use of natural resources in the PAs. This kind of research is important to understand the PA's needs and to enable some strategic actions. The MS was very well written, and brought a lot of good and recent references.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Some of the reviewer suggestions to improve the MS are bellow : Line 43: Change "significant reduction in deforestation in the region" to "significant deforestation reduction in the region" Line 117: Put the Datum used to compose the maps. Line 126: Change "of the territory of the country" to "of the country's territory" Line 131: Take away one the words "established" To all figures: Put the Datum and Projection in the maps, with this anyone that reads your maps will know this information. Figure 1: In the legend: put the units of the “Illegal activities”, like: “Numbers of illegal activities” Divide the legend in two columns, the map’s layout will be improved. Suggestion to the legend order an items: First column: Numbers of Illegal activities 1-23 24-55 56-97 98-199 200-316 Second column: Brazilian Amazon Rivers Protected Areas Sustainable use Strictly protected To all tables:Change “Brazilian reais” to “Brazilian real”
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results show the importance of your work, however i missed some explanation in the conclusions, that how the government authorities would use this data to improve the threats to the biodiversity in the PAs.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Illegal use of natural resources in federal protected areas of the Brazilian Amazon (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3902v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 19, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
