Review History for Nests of red wood ants (Formica rufa-group) are positively associated with tectonic faults: a double-blind test [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Nests of red wood ants ( Formica rufa -group) are positively associated with tectonic faults: a double-blind test To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 6th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 2nd, 2017. The first revision was submitted on September 15th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 18th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Sep 18, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Del Toro and colleagues: I am delighted to report that your work has been deemed suitable for publication in PeerJ. Congratulations! Thank you for addressing all of the concerns of the reviewers, as the manuscript is much improved. This is a very interesting report, and we are excited to be publishing your work in PeerJ. I personally look forward to seeing it in print! Best, -joe
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 15, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Aug 2, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I find this an interesting paper with a well-crafted experimental design. It is an important addition to the work already accomplished by some of the authors, and has potential to attract workers outside of the Hymenoptera community. Well done! Please carefully consider the concerns raised by BOTH reviewers, and in particular, how you may better explain some of the experimental approaches. The idea that nests might not be independent for F. polyctena should also be addressed. The relevance of the double-blind approach should also be more clearly delivered. Good luck with your revision!
label_author_1
Heike Feldhaar ·
Jul 28, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors have conducted a double-blind test to test the hypothesis that red wood ants occur in proximity to active tectonic faults. Former publications of some of the co-authors have shown this already. I have to admit – I was not aware that this hypothesis or the published results were criticized by the myrmecologist community. In this case I welcome this study with its rigorous experimental approach if it helps to corroborate former results in an unbiased way.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
A potential weakness of the study is the polydomous colony structure of one of the ant species studied here (see comment 1). I have two points that I think the authors should clarify in this otherwise well-performed and well-presented study. 1. The authors state that the RWA nests were spatially clustered. Especially for F. polyctena this is no surprise as this ant is known to be highly polydomous (and polygynous) (e.g. in Seifert 2007 or the edited book on RWA ecology and conservation by Stockan and Robinson). Thus, the clustering of nests can to my mind be considered a pseudoreplication as nests are (at least in part) not independent of each other. What are the results for F. rufa alone in comparison to F. polyctena? Here this problem should not be as pronounced. Are the results comparable? Could you potentially do the analysis with the grid cells themselves (RWA present or absent)? 2. One point that is to my mind not made clear enough in the methods section is how random points in the same region were generated for comparison. Please add one or two sentences.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comments
Cite this review as
Feldhaar H ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Nests of red wood ants (Formica rufa-group) are positively associated with tectonic faults: a double-blind test (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3903v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 1, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Line 20-22: How conducted study in this manuscript does help us to apply (design) double-blind ecological studies in “distribution” and “abundance” studies. As far as I understand the presented study is not related to any of these groups in their classical definition, at least. An example in the discussion/conclusion can help to understand the point authors try to address.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Line 94-100: How do authors deal with spatial autocorrelation in this analyze. Line 125-149: I miss any discussion/conclusion on why ant nests are significantly closer to faults?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript has overall been written well. It seems authors have not been able to decide if the main topic is testing double-blind approach in the Ecology or an ecological experiment on relationship of ant nests and tectonic faults. Authors can the re-organize the structure in a new way that readers can follow the paper better. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Nests of red wood ants (Formica rufa-group) are positively associated with tectonic faults: a double-blind test (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3903v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 6, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
