Review History for Clinical outcomes of residual or recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma treated with endoscopic nasopharyngectomy plus chemoradiotherapy or with chemoradiotherapy alone: a retrospective study [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Clinical outcomes of residual or recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma treated with endoscopic nasopharyngectomy plus chemoradiotherapy or with chemoradiotherapy alone: a retrospective study To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 21st, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 26th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on September 15th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 19th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Kathryn Gold
·
Sep 19, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the concerns of our reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 15, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Kathryn Gold
·
Jul 26, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for your submission. The reviewers and I feel that this article will be a valuable addition to the scientific literature with some modifications. See reviewer comments below. Several major themes in their comments that must be addressed: 1. The article should be reviewed by a native English speaker, as there are some grammatical errors and irregularities 2. The authors should include information about how treatment was selected for each patient - why did some patients have surgery and others did not?
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 14, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1)The article should be reviewed by a native English speaker – there are significant grammatical errors.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1)Their inclusion criteria did not require a biopsy confirmation that the residual/recurrent mass was actually tumor. This seems a major limitation of the analysis. They also do not describe how many patients in the surgical group had false positive resections. 2)In the results section it is unclear whether the stage described refers to the original stage (as per standard practice) or the stage at recurrence. Based on Figure 2, it seems they are referring to recurrent Tstage. As a practice, these are referred to with Arabic numerals (1,2,3,4) , not roman numbers (I,II, III,IV).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
3)The subgroup analysis involved very few patients – I am not sure how much we can rely on the validity of the data at that level. A comment should be made to indicate these findings should be viewed as exploratory. For instance, looking at the OS and DFS curves in Figure 5, the only group that reaches significance is surgery vs CRT for advanced disease. 4)The inclusion of EBV-DNA is fascinating and a clear strength of this paper. Given that the bloodtests were drawn serially, however, efforts should be made to clarify at what time point we are calling someone “EBV-positive”. In addition, more space should be used to emphasize the most impressive finding on these survival curves – the absolutely shockingly poor outcomes among patients with EBV + disease posttreatment. Again, though, does the EV+ in Figure 5 reflect EBV+ before or after treatment?
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Clinical outcomes of residual or recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma treated with endoscopic nasopharyngectomy plus chemoradiotherapy or with chemoradiotherapy alone: a retrospective study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3912v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Mario Turri Zanoni ·
Jul 17, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is well written and the conclusions reasonable.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The study design is effective and it is able to investigate the impact of EBV-DNA in patients' prognosis according to a subgroups stratification analyzing the stage of disease and the treatment strategy adopted.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data is robust and statistically sound.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The paper can be improved by addressing these issues: 1) Please, specify in the material and methods section the histological subtype of nasopharyngeal cancer enrolled in this study. Only non-keratinizing carcinoma (WHO type III) have been included? I strongly suggest you to specify this information. 2) The results herein reported suggest that surgery was more effective than CRT at facilitating the reduction of EBV-DNA viral load and therefore surgical treatment has better therapeutic efficacy than CRT alone. (Discussion, lines 254-256). However, surgery is not feasible in every case of nasopharyngeal cancer recurrence (e.g. internal carotid artery encasement, massive intracranial intradural involvement, orbital content invasion). I would like to suggest the Authors to improve the Discussion section by including the list of contraindications for endoscopic nasopharyngectomy currently accepted. In this regard, I suggest you to refer the study by Castelnuovo et al. where actual contraindications for salvage surgery in recurrent nasopharyngeal cancers have been clearly elucidated (Castelnuovo et al. Endoscopic endonasal nasopharyngectomy in selected cancers. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2013 Sep;149(3):424-30. doi:10.1177/0194599813493073) 3) A limit of this study is that patients have been allocated between the surgical and non-surgical group arbitrarily, without any randomization. The Authors should discuss deeply this and possibly propose future studies where a randomization can be introduced. Cite this review as
Turri Zanoni M ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Clinical outcomes of residual or recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma treated with endoscopic nasopharyngectomy plus chemoradiotherapy or with chemoradiotherapy alone: a retrospective study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3912v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Jul 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article contains several English irregularities, especially with the use of adverbs ( see examples in the revised PDF). It would benefit from a revision by a native English speaker. Overall, it is well organized and beautifully illustrated
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The main flaw in this section is the lack of clarity about how the treatments were chosen. It lacks a description of criteria used in each group. There are other important data points missing (see revised PDF) Include reason for death (local, loco regional, distant mets, side effects of treatment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The analysis seems sound; however, the conclusions are flawed in view of the lax methodology, as described above. They will have to be revised. In addition, theaters fail to address complications from each approach of treatment. This can also affect
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Clinical outcomes of residual or recurrent nasopharyngeal carcinoma treated with endoscopic nasopharyngectomy plus chemoradiotherapy or with chemoradiotherapy alone: a retrospective study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3912v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 21, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
