Review History for Pulmonary transcriptomic responses indicate a dual role of inflammation in pneumonia development and viral clearance during 2009 pandemic influenza infection [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Pulmonary transcriptomic responses indicate a dual role of inflammation in pneumonia development and viral clearance during 2009 pandemic influenza infection To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 23rd, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 18th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on August 30th, 2017 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 21st, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Craig Roberts
·
Sep 21, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for taking into account the reviews and revising your manuscript accordingly.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 19, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is vastly improved from the last version and the authors were very responsive to the critiques. The discussion would benefit from a more thorough editing for proper english.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
the experimental design is well defined and meaningful.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
the data is robust and well stated.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Pulmonary transcriptomic responses indicate a dual role of inflammation in pneumonia development and viral clearance during 2009 pandemic influenza infection (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3915v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 30, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Craig Roberts
·
Jun 18, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Thank you again for submitting this manuscript to PeerJ. Please address the concerns of the reviewers to revise your manuscript. Please also be careful to: 1. Discuss differences in your findings with Pommerenke et al., 2012 in more depth. 2. Discuss the microarray results from the 2 other time points that you currently do not discuss. Be careful to also discuss this in the context of already published work.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 5, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a descriptive study examining the transcriptome changes that occur during a mild H1N1 2009 influenza infection in mice. The manuscript is coherently written and laid out in a logical and cogent manner. However there are several weaknesses to the manuscript that reduce enthusiasm for acceptance. 1) Although the authors claim no research has been done to examine the non-fatal 2009 flu model, this is untrue. There have been multiple studies performed on H1N1 2009 (Itoh et al Nature 460, 1021-1025, Rowe et al 2010 Virology. Jun 5; 401(2): 257–265 ). to name a few. These should be referenced and more emphasis should be placed on what the purpose of this study is and how it differs from the other studies (CA2009 vs Cat2009 etc). 2) There needs to be more thorough editing performed on the paper, for instance: line 51- "this severe" should be changed to "these severe" line 56 "severe patients infected" should read "severely infected patients" line 64- "previously put in relationship" would read better as "previously correlated with"
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental procedures seem well defined and the authors demonstrate a previously undescribed mouse influenza model. The numbers of mice seem appropriate and the statistical methods are fine. There is a little confusion in the materials and methods section that need to be clarified as well as some figures that need improvement. 1) Figure 2 demonstrates severe pathology at day 1 and 5. It is unclear what the differences are between day 1 and 5 though. This figure would greatly benefit from histopathological scoring. It is stated in the results section, but as the figure stands, it is showing very severe pathology at day 1 and not explaining that this was only from 2 of the mice. 2) it is confusing why they state "data not shown" on line 102 yet, they seem to have shown the data. 3) line 128 "the to" should be changed. line 135: the authors say "as described elsewhere" that is fine, but give a citation showing where. 4) Line 176: Change "significantly higher body weight loss" to significantly greater weight loss" 5) line 182: "one day after mice infection" remove the word mice 6) line 183: Please use scientific notation for the standard deviation. same for line 184. 7) Line 225: change "induced also" to "also induced".
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
1) Since the 2009 H1N1 outbreak there has been extensive studies into this viral strain and the effects in multiple models (in vitro, mouse, ferret, pig) as well as in patients themselves. The discussion would greatly benefit from a better explanation of how this study ties in to the already abundant data that is out there. 2) The authors use a human isolate and it is unclear whether it has been passaged in mice already. The discussion would benefit with a comparison of well characterized fatal (PR8 or multiple mouse passaged 2009) infections. 3) It is unclear why the authors focused solely on day 5 when they have data from 3 different time points. The manuscript would benefit in a comparison of the changes from day 1, to day 5 to day 10.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Pulmonary transcriptomic responses indicate a dual role of inflammation in pneumonia development and viral clearance during 2009 pandemic influenza infection (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3915v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Fiona Henriquez ·
Jun 13, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This article is reported in clear and unambiguous manner. There are some grammatical errors and I hope I have highlighted them all in my review. There is an exhaustive list of references and an acknowledgement of an article (Pommerenke et al., 2012), which is quite similar in some aspects. The cited literature provides a good background and context to the study. Figures and tables are provided in the main text and as supplementary data. There are clear and well structured. In the legend of Figure 1, statistics are presented in part B, but there is no asterisk on the viral load graph (B). I would recommend that statistics be presented out with the A and B description. In figure 2 would be it possible to use arrows to indicate the infiltrate in the viral infected lungs Figure 3 is a clear representation of differences in GEP, it would be beneficial to relate this figure to a table of genes that are a different within the figure legend. In this way it would be easier for reader to follow the process. Does Table 1 represent only genes that are unregulated? could examples of down regulated genes also be included?
Experimental design
label_ed_3
This study represents primary research within the aims and scope of the journal. The research question is clear, but I would record highlighting how it advances knowledge in this area and expand on lines 239 and 240 to explain what this study offers. It is good to see microarray data accompanied by histological data. Methods and ethics are clearly described.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Data is robust and in line with previous literature. Conclusion is well stated and linked to the research question.
Comments for the author
This study is clear, easy to read and a good example of the importance of microarray data to illustrate a global view of immunological responses in a specific tissue. I would recommend clarifying some of the figure legends to ensure that figures are fully explained in regards to the complexity of microarray data. For example in figure 3, I understand that the GEP profile is changing, but my immediate question is, what is changing? Can the figure 3 legend be connected to table 1 or supplementary table? Can table 1 be coloured to represent how it refers to figure 3 data. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Henriquez F ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Pulmonary transcriptomic responses indicate a dual role of inflammation in pneumonia development and viral clearance during 2009 pandemic influenza infection (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3915v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 23, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
