Review History for Bacterial and fungal communities respond differently to varying tillage depth in agricultural soils [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Bacterial and fungal communities respond differently to varying tillage depth in agricultural soils To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 26th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 1st, 2017. The first revision was submitted on September 18th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on September 23rd, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 26th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Budiman Minasny
·
Sep 26, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Looking forward to the publication of this paper.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 23, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Budiman Minasny
·
Sep 18, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The authors have revised the manuscript accordingly. However there are still a few snags, especially in the statistical analysis and interpretation. Further clarification of the methods will be beneficial. For example, Line 215 reads "This variation indicates that sampling was at the appropriate scale for determining among-treatment differences." Statistical significance does not mean that the sampling is adequate. There is no "cause and effect" relation, I suggest removing that sentence. What is permutational multivariate analysis of variance? Why is it needed? What is 2D stress value? What does it mean L. 207 what is the purpose of RDA? A brief explanation would make the paper more reader-friendly. L 244 soil water content
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 18, 2017
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Budiman Minasny
·
Sep 1, 2017
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Two reviewers have evaluated the manuscript and both recommended a better statistical analysis and a more focussed discussion.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Most of the for the Basic reporting season is acceptable. However, below are some comments about the English language. Line 50 change Tillage therefore for Tillage, therefore, Experimental design Line 62 This however … The use of "this" brings an unclear antecedent. I suggest that the authors rewrite the sentence making a better connection with the previous statement. Line 83 change Prior to for Before 225 change This for This tillage treatment effect Line 229 and line 231 the use of this brings an unclear antecedent. Line 304 change eachother for each other
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Some parts of the topic experimental design need to be better explained. Please see the questions and comments below. The authors proposed the nMDS analysis on their material and methods (see line 194). However, during their results and discussion, they used the term MDS, which is a different kind of multivariate analysis. Thus, I think there is a mistake on the use of MDS term and the authors should do a double check on their manuscript. For the lines 227-229 and 231 and 232, I have a doubt about which are the statistical analyses that support the both statements. My suggestion is to rewrite these sentences and citing the analysis which endorses it. The authors used the two-way ANOVA analysis ( e.g. line 233), however, they did not describe in methodology. I suggest that the author use the envif analysis from Vegan package in R (http://cc.oulu.fi/~jarioksa/opetus/metodi/vegantutor.pdf) to evaluate the correlation between the environmental table (table 1) and the nMDS results. This analysis may contribute to a better visualization of which are the chemical and physical attributes that better explain the nMDS results, being helpful to confirm the hypotheses proposed . My suggestion for the lines 296-298 is to include a reference for the ARISA methodology statement.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I commend the authors for the manuscript, evaluating the effects of tillage practices and depths on soil microbial community. The article is written in a good scientific English and text structure. If there is a weakness, it is in the statistical analysis and some better explanation about some topics during the text ( as I have noted above). In my opinion, after the answer of some question and the inclusion of some analysis that could enrich the discussion, the manuscript will be ready the Acceptance. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Bacterial and fungal communities respond differently to varying tillage depth in agricultural soils (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3930v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 28, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The basic reporting meet the criteria, except for: -The tittles of the figures would benefit from being more descriptive. For example, Figure 2 and three have identical titles.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental aspects appear sound. Since different tillage techniques are used, it seems relevant to justify the reason for studying them both in relation to depth.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I have some comments regarding the validity and discussion of the findings. The authors could discuss the potential for the fungal community results to have been influenced by methodological factors in the molecular approach. It seems the relative error is greater and thus it appears that the sensitivity for the bacterial and fungal analyses may not be comparable? Thus the conclusion of who is more or less responsive to the management, may need to be revised. The discussion in lines 284-293 seems too general and not sufficiently insightful and focused. The conclusion section seems to be too broad, not focused enough of the main findings and their implications.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Bacterial and fungal communities respond differently to varying tillage depth in agricultural soils (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3930v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 26, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
