Review History for The neuroprotective effect of nicotine in Parkinson’s disease models is associated with inhibiting PARP-1 and caspase-3 cleavage [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The neuroprotective effect of nicotine in Parkinson’s disease models is associated with inhibiting PARP-1 and caspase-3 cleavage To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 24th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 27th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on August 26th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on September 25th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 26th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Joao Rocha
·
Sep 26, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for correcting the manuscript. However, please check the values "F1,6= 3784, p>0.05". Something is wrong, if this unusual F value is correct, the value of P is not, etc.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 25, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Joao Rocha
·
Aug 29, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank for revising your manuscript and for adding new data as requested by one of our reviewers. I will not send the paper for another round of review, but there some points that you have to clarify or correct in the revised manuscript. First, explain in the text (it can be in the legend of the figure) the main and interaction effects (in the case of use of two-way ANOVA) and also provide the F values and the degrees of freedom for them. Although you have explained that you have performed analysis of homogeneity of variance, it is not clear if the corrections made (in the case of violation of the homogeneity assumptions) was sufficient to correct the problem. Furthermore, I have not found where you have used the Dunnett's test. In relation to figures 4, how could you perform a two-way ANOVA? The control groups have no variance and this is expected to introduce an unpredictable error in the analysis. The authors have to clarify whether or not they have used paired t-test in the experiments with 6OHDA. Furthermore, is it appropriate to usea two-way ANOVA when the same animal is the control of the lesioned side? In this case, the measurements (dependent variables) should be treated as dependent of the subject (within subject).
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 26, 2017
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joao Rocha
·
Jun 27, 2017
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Your manuscript has been reviewed by two reviewers, who have raised several important points that you have to consider before a final decision can be made. Please review the manuscript detailing all the changes you will make to meet reviewers' critiques. Note that if you do not reply clearly to the points raised by them, the manuscript will be re-submitted for a second round of review.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 20, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The study: "The neuroprotective effect of nicotine in Parkin's disease models is associated with inhibiting PARP-1 and caspase-3 cleavage", propose to give evidence that nicotine administration can contrast cell death in the MPP+ cellular model for PD and increase PARP-1 and caspase-3 expression in the 6-OHDA mouse model for PD. They found that nicotinic cholinergic drugs may delete PD progression, in particular through a7 nAChR activation. Besides some typos (Figure 1B in the legend, nicotine; line 231, ih), the article is written using a clear and professional English, and is supported by a sufficient literature. However, there are several concerns for me as follows: 1.the means and the standard errors of the mean of the data obtained are missing throughout the test 2.it is unclear if normality and equal variance tests were run to identify parametric and non-parametric data, please specify how you choose the right statistical test 3.representative pictures of the staining have not been inserted in fig 1, 2, and 3 4.Could you explain why the cell death index value of the treatment MPP+ + nicotine in the figure 3A is different from the one obtained in the figure 1B? and for the treatment MPP+ + choline between figure 2 and 3B? 5.Figure 3: please level out font size 6.Figure 4A and D<U+202F>: molecular weight are missing
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Regarding the experimental design there are two main concerns for me: •It is known that nicotine concentration in smokers’ body is below 100 µM (Matta et al., 2006; Clunes et al., 2008), so I wonder whether the concentration (2 mM) you used in your paper is appropriate. •MLA want to be used as a7 nAChR antagonist; however at concentrations > 40 nM, the MLA purchased from Tocris (as the one used) could interacts with a4ß2 and a6ß2 receptors. How do you validate the concentration (20 µM) that you applied? Methods are described with sufficient details, but I ask you to specify the mouse strain used. To further strength Lu et al findings and correlate the in vitro part with the in vivo one, I may suggest three missing experiments: -evaluate PARP-1 and caspase 3 expression in SH-SY5Y cells in control and after MPP, nicotine, or nicotine + MPP treatments. -quantify cell death in the striatal tissue both in the lesioned and non-lesioned hemisphere in mice injected with nicotine or saline. -evaluate PARP-1 and caspase 3 expression in the non-lesioned hemisphere.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
It is almost impossible to evaluate data strength inasmuch means have not been inserted into the text and it is unclear if data have been correctly analyzed. Moreover, some controls are missing (PARP-1 and caspase 3 expression in the non-lesioned hemisphere).
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "The neuroprotective effect of nicotine in Parkinson’s disease models is associated with inhibiting PARP-1 and caspase-3 cleavage (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3933v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Clear and concise.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Fine
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Findings are novel and likely to be important. Links well with previous studies. Little speculation.
Comments for the author
Line 301-3: I would suggest removing the following from the penultimate paragraph: “PARP-1 also plays a role in cancers, including those of the prostate and ovary, prompting the development of PARP-1 inhibitors such as olaparib as anti-cancer drugs (Deshmukh & Qiu 2015; Passeri et al. 2016).” This paragraph could be concluded by something on the importance of the sirtuin decrease arising from PARP-1 induced depletion of NAD+, with implications for mitochondrial functioning (e.g. Anderson and Maes, 2014). It should also be noted that a7nAChR agonists are also likely to have significant impacts in PD via the regulation of e.g. the immune system and intestinal permeability (e.g. Anderson et al, 2016). This would not negate the relevance of the current results but would briefly provide the reader with a broader perspective on the role of the a7nAChR in PD. Line 305: In the concluding paragraph, it would be better to refer to PD models and in vitro model, rather than showing “neuroprotective effects of nicotine in PD”. It is widely accepted that these commonly used PD models are poor representations of the complexity of the human condition. Suggested references: Anderson G, Maes M. Neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease: interactions of oxidative stress, tryptophan catabolites and depression with mitochondria and sirtuins. Mol Neurobiol. 2014 Apr;49(2):771-83. Anderson G, Seo M, Berk M, Carvalho AF, Maes M. Gut Permeability and Microbiota in Parkinson's Disease: Role of Depression, Tryptophan Catabolites, Oxidative and Nitrosative Stress and Melatonergic Pathways. Curr Pharm Des. 2016;22(40):6142-6151. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "The neuroprotective effect of nicotine in Parkinson’s disease models is associated with inhibiting PARP-1 and caspase-3 cleavage (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3933v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 24, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
