Review History for Formation of 1-octen-3-ol from Aspergillus flavus conidia is accelerated after disruption of cells independently of Ppo oxygenases, and is not a main cause of inhibition of germination [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Formation of 1-octen-3-ol from Aspergillus flavus conidia is accelerated after disruption of cells independently of Ppo oxygenases, and is not a main cause of inhibition of germination To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 26th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 8th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on May 5th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 6th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Peter Solomon
·
May 6, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All of the minor revisions were adequately addressed and thus manuscript is now acceptable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 5, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Peter Solomon
·
Apr 8, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Prof. Matsui, The manuscript has been revised be two expert reviewers in the field . Both reviewers have responded positively although they have made some minor suggestions that once addressed, would result in an improved manuscript.
label_author_1
Yit Heng Chooi ·
Mar 26, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Generally well presented. No further comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experiments in this paper are well-designed and covered most bases. Minor comment: Has the changes of pH in the medium been considered/measured? If there is a change in pH, can the changes in pH affect the germination besides glucose level?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusions are generally well-supported. One minor comment: On the measuring the level of 1-octen-3-ol in heat-treated conidia, the possibility that the C8 volatiles were evaporated after heat-treatment cannot be ruled out. If this has not been done, the authors should check if there is any loss of 1-octen-3-ol after heat-treatment by adding a small ammount of standard 1-octen-3-ol into the condia before heat-treatment. If there is a loss of C8-volatiles, it will not support the conclusion "there must be another enzyme system(s) that is responsible for 1-octen-3-ol formation".
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The hypothesis that C8 volatiles are autoinhibitors for inhibiting germination and the possibility that these C8 volatiles are produced by ppo oxygenases were carefully examined using SPME-GC/MS in combination with well-thought experiments in this paper. The authors showed convincingly that these C8 volatiles are not responsible for the autoinhibition under physiologically relevant context as the level of the C8 volatiles present in the conidia are much lower than the amount required for inhibition of germination. They also showed that the formation of these C8 volatiles are independent of ppo oxygenases by examining the corresponding mutants. The finding in the end about the possibility of an unidentified heat-labile factor may be responsible for the autoinhibition is highly interesting and certainly warrants future investigation. Minor: It would be helpful if this autoinhibitor can be highlighted in the title as well, although it is acknowledged that the present title is already quite long. Cite this review as
Chooi YH ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Formation of 1-octen-3-ol from Aspergillus flavus conidia is accelerated after disruption of cells independently of Ppo oxygenases, and is not a main cause of inhibition of germination (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.395v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jan Dijksterhuis ·
Apr 8, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Formation of 1-octen-3-ol from Aspergillus flavus is accelerated after disruption of cells independently of Ppo oxygenases, and is not a main cause of inhibition of germination. Miyamoto et al. This contribution describes the crowding effect in conidia of A. flavus (and A. nidulans) in which the presence of high densities of conidia result in inhibition of germination. Addition of glucose to these suspensions partially increased germination. Spent medium of high density spore suspensions also suppressed germination in diluted spore solutions. This suppression activity was absent when the spent medium was boiled. Fresh harvested conidia in high densities were analysed for the presence of the volatile 1-octen-3-ol , but the component could not be detected with GC. After a freeze-thaw treatment small amounts of R-1-octen-3-ol were detected. The amount released by the cells increased after up to 5 freeze-thaw treatments. Three or more freeze-thaw treatments resulted in lowered germination, which was correlated with a slight staining of the cells with Evans Blue. Production of 1-octen-3-ol was similar in mutants that were deleted for fatty acid oxygenases, indicating that 1-octen-3-ol is formed in other ways than via these enzymes. Addition of 10 mM 1-octen-3-ol to conidia showed a marked decrease of germination after 9 h at 29°C. The authors conclude that the functioning of 1-octen-3-ol acts as a self-inhibitor of premature germination of conidia remains an open question. The paper is well written and the sequence of experiments and clear and the work is worthwhile of publication in Peer Journal. The manuscript really adds to the topic. Before, acceptation I would like to see a number of points addressed by the authors. 1.In case of P. paneum, production of 1-octen-3-ol was observed after 22 h in suspensions of 109 conidia/ml in Malt Extract Broth, but no germination-inhibiting activity was observed in fresh suspensions (Chitarra et al. 2004). Do the authors have data if the amount of produced 1-octen-3-ol had increased after a certain period of incubation of suspensions of high conidial density? 2.Germination has dropped with 60% after three or more freeze-thaw treatments, while faint staining with Evans Blue is occurring in less than 20% of the conidia. Is this an indication that the majority of the conidia that do not germinate were not damaged? 3.If used medium of a high density spore solution is boiled, the suppressed germination recovered. If a volatile was present in this solution, could it be evaporated from the solution after heating? 4.Activity of 1-octen-3-ol is tested in solution and millimolar concentrations are needed to inhibit spore germination. The puzzle is if the action as a volatile inhibitor, via the air, is more effective at lower concentrations than in liquid.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
See above
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See above
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
See above Cite this review as
Dijksterhuis J ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Formation of 1-octen-3-ol from Aspergillus flavus conidia is accelerated after disruption of cells independently of Ppo oxygenases, and is not a main cause of inhibition of germination (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.395v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 26, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
