Review History for Species–specific crab predation on the hydrozoan clinging jellyfish Gonionemus sp. (Cnidaria, Hydrozoa), subsequent crab mortality, and possible ecological consequences [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Species–specific crab predation on the hydrozoan clinging jellyfish Gonionemus sp. (Cnidaria, Hydrozoa), subsequent crab mortality, and possible ecological consequences To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 16th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 13th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on September 28th, 2017 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 6th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
James Reimer
·
Oct 6, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your paper has been well revised and is now ready for publication. I look forward to seeing the published version.
label_author_1
Allen Collins ·
Oct 5, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
All clear, and reviewer comments addressed satisfactorily.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Well done.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Conclusions are well founded.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
All reviewer comments have been addressed and the MS is ready to be published. Cite this review as
Collins AG ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Species–specific crab predation on the hydrozoan clinging jellyfish Gonionemus sp. (Cnidaria, Hydrozoa), subsequent crab mortality, and possible ecological consequences (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3966v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 28, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Reimer
·
Sep 13, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have heard back from two reviewers, both of whom felt your paper is a worthy contribution to PeerJ. There are a number of minor comments to be addressed, but no major issues that would require extensive revision, and hence my decision is "minor revisions" are needed.
label_author_2
Allen Collins ·
Aug 29, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This MS by Carman, Grunden and Govindarajan is excellent, providing new data and observations on predation on the hydrozoan jellyfish Gonionemus by crab species both living in eelgrass habitats in Massachusetts, USA. The MS is written clearly, with experiments, results and implications expressed in sufficient detail and fairly. Main conclusions include that the native majoid crabs Libinia dubia readily consume Gonionemus and that mortality of L. dubia increases in experiments when more medusae are consumed. In contrast, the introduced crab Carcinus maenus avoids consuming the jellyfish. Anecdotal evidence is presented that Callinectes sapidus may consume Gonionemus, but C. sapidus was not common enough to assess this relationship in any detail. All told, these results are relevant because L. dubia and C. maenus live in the same habitat and consume many of the same prey items, suggesting that the differential feeding bahaviors on Gonionemus benefits the non-native C. maenus. The complicating detail in this paper is that recent work has shown that the Gonionemus jellyfish likely in this region may include lineages that are particularly noxious to humans and that have recently been introduced. Some care should be taken to make clear that toxicity to humans is not necessarily a good proxy for toxicity to crabs, or evidence to the contrary should be presented. Also, it may be helpful to explicitly lay out potential future work investigating whether there is differential impact when Libinia feed on the different lineages of Gonionemus.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experiments are fairly straight forward.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The experiments are fairly straight forward, consistently showing that: 1) more medusae are consumed by L. dubia over time and in higher densities, and; 2) mortality increases as more medusae are consumed. The apparent inverse relationship between crab size and mortality (with smaller crabs being less likely to suffer lethal effects) is difficult to understand and the authors correctly assert that more evidence is needed to understand whether this relationship is real or not.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
A few notes/suggestions, all minor. 1) I do not necessarily agree that "jellyfish" refers to gelatinous zooplankton. Perhaps this is true of the word jelly or jellies, but I tend to think of jellyfish referring to only the medusa phase of medusozoan species that have a medusa phase. In any event, it is a common name and it is unclear how that introductory sentence helps the overall narrative of this paper. It is not a big deal, but the authors could use the term "gelata" , as introduced by Haddock (Haddock, 2004 in Hydrobiologia) in order to move the focus to the medusa-bearing groups. 2) Line 223: "Even if the medusae were cling. . ." should have "were" deleted. 3) Lines 246-250. It might be worth providing a bit of caution into this discussion. Crabs and humans are quite different organisms and there is no evidence that the toxins behave similarly on the two groups. I think a caveat to this effect might be warranted. It is interesting to note the individual variation in human response to Gonionemus venom, and the fact that a single sting can elicit symptoms in a human, but this is merely suggestive of possibilities in regards to the crabs. 4) The discussion of jellyfish predators starts (lines 257-258) with a partial list (sea turtles, fish, molluscs, chaetognaths, ctenophores, and other cnidarians) and that through me off a bit. But it goes on to become more complete. Phyllosoma larvae should be added to the list (Biol Bull. 2012. 222(1):1-5. Predation by the phyllosoma larva of Ibacus novemdentatus on various kinds of venomous jellyfish.) and I have also seen images of galatheid crabs feeding on medusae in deep reef settings. I was unable to find anything in a quick literature search, but the authors might consider checking that. 5) Lines 288-290 states "The hard shells of the crabs probably provided protection from Gonionemus stings upon initial contact with the jellyfish. However, the soft interior tissues appear to be vulnerable." Is there really any evidence that the stings do not occur through the handling and manipulation of the jellies, rather than the consumption? I suspect that the authors have this correct, but it might be more fair to state " However, the soft interior tissues are more likely to be vulnerable." 6) Lines 308-312. Here again the authors suggest that what we know about Gonionemus toxicity to humans may be directly relevant to toxicity in crabs (when discussing Carcinus avoidance of Gonionemus). It could also be the case that Gonionemus in Europe is toxic to Carcinus even if the Gonionemus in Europe isn't particularly noxious to humans. 7) The authors may want to lay how to test (and the importance of testing) whether the less toxic lineage of Gonionemus (to humans) is also less toxic to Libinia. Cite this review as
Collins AG ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Species–specific crab predation on the hydrozoan clinging jellyfish Gonionemus sp. (Cnidaria, Hydrozoa), subsequent crab mortality, and possible ecological consequences (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3966v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Tohru Naruse ·
Sep 13, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This is a straightforward experimental paper on the effect of Gonionemus cf. murbachii on Libinia dubia and other crab species.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Very clear.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The results are sound and worth publishing.
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Naruse T ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Species–specific crab predation on the hydrozoan clinging jellyfish Gonionemus sp. (Cnidaria, Hydrozoa), subsequent crab mortality, and possible ecological consequences (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3966v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 16, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
