Review History for Respiratory syncytial virus genotypes NA1, ON1, and BA9 are prevalent in Thailand, 2012–2015 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Respiratory syncytial virus genotypes NA1, ON1, and BA9 are prevalent in Thailand, 2012–2015 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 18th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 13th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on October 4th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 9th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Grant Hill-Cawthorne
·
Oct 9, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You have addressed all of the concerns from the reviewers adequately. At this stage could you now make sure that the accession numbers on GenBank are open and accessible.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 4, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Grant Hill-Cawthorne
·
Sep 13, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As part of the reviewing process, myself and the reviewers need to be able to see the sequences of the viruses in order to check your conclusions. At present these have not been released in GenBank. Please check they are publicly available prior to resubmission.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 31, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript provides additional information on RSV genotypes circulation in Southeast Asia Region. As the RSV molecular epidemiology data from developing countries especially from long term studies are still lacking, this manuscript contributes on the data needed to determine the global RSV circulation and transmission. . There are some drawbacks of this manuscript: 1.There are several grammatical errors and some sentences need to be reframing. The flow of idea of the sentences within the paragraphs and between the paragraphs are unclear. There are some repetitions of vocabulary used in the sentences. 2.The structure of the manuscript should be revised based on the PeerJ standards. 2.1The abstract should be revised as it did not follow the PeerJ standard. 2.2 There is no conclusion paragraph. As the PeerJ standard, the author should add the conclusion section. 3.The title of this manuscript is too general. The authors may change it to the more specific title which related to the contents of the article. 4.Figures and tables: Figure 1 needs a revision (left vertical axis ?) Raw data is not provided. I am unable to verify the RSV sequences obtained from this study from NCBI website as they mentioned that these sequences have not yet been released.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1.The topic of this manuscript falls within the scope of the journal 2.Research questions should be more well-explained, as it seems inconsistent from the abstract, introduction and the discussion. 3.Methodology: 3.1. The author should clarify the methodology regarding the samples as in methods section (line 82) the samples were from a retrospective study while in the discussion (line 1993) the author mentioned about multi-year surveillance study. 3.2. The author should add the screening diagnostic methods used for the samples as it is mentioned in the abstract but it is not well-explained in the methods. 3.3.Detailed methodology on DNA sequencing should be provided.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
1.The authors do not provide the demography data of the samples. 2.The discussion on the first and second results should include the comparison with the results from the previous RSV studies in Thailand, Southeast Asia countries and other countries in tropical region. 3.The authors should discuss the results of amino acid substitutions (line 161-181) as the discussion is limited to N-linked glycosylation analysis. 4.The authors should provide more discussions on the third and fourth results. In the discussion (line 239-258), it is not clear whether the authors discuss their results or the results from the references. 5.As previously mentioned (point B.2.2), the authors should provide a comprehensive conclusion section.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors should improve the manuscripts (language, grammar, and the clarity of the presentation) before publication. Furthermore, the authors should provide more detailed discussions on the results presented in the article. Overall, the authors should consider the manuscript to be reviewed and edited by a native English speaker to improve the clarity. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Respiratory syncytial virus genotypes NA1, ON1, and BA9 are prevalent in Thailand, 2012–2015 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3970v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 13, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
RSV infects lower respiratory track of, especially, children worldwide. In the current study, Thongpan et al. used molecular techniques to describe epidemiological features of RSV Thai strains, detected in several thousands samples, collected over the past couples of years (2013-5). The study is well described, and provides updated data on RSV infection in Thailand. I have some comments, below: Line 29-30: It will be helpful to give a brief description of 'RSV-A' and 'RSV-B' in the abstract, for readers who are not familiar with these terms. Line 33: Perhaps the results reported here could describe only in the context of Thailand, not Southeastern Asia. Line 53: Should it be 13 RSV-A genotypes (not 11)? Line 65: Any info to describe how the particular strain of virus did spread around the world? Line 83-91: Were the 3,306 specimens derived from 3,306 subjects/patients? If not, from how many subjects/patients? How many samples were from subjects with flu-like illness and probable RSV infection? How many samples were from King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital and from Chum Phae Hospital? Such info should be mentioned in the manuscript. Line 108: There were 278 positive samples. I wonder whether a total of 212 strains (118 RSV-A and 94 RSV-B) were identified from all these positive samples, or there were just some positive samples that failed to identify the strains? Line 112: What are the genotypes of the RSV reference strains B1 and A2? Line 171 and 176: duplication of which gene or region? Line 211: It will be more interesting to see if there is any info about the percentages of co-infection by both RSV subgroups. Figure 1: Is it possible to adjust the scale of the Y-axis to 0 - 100%, to clearer describe % positive samples, in relation to the number of samples, at any time points? Figure 2 and 3: Can the Figures 2 and 3 be combined into one tree, to see overall phylogenetic relationships of all RSV Thai strains? In the legends, adding some info regarding about number of samples, where they were derived, how many samples in each year, and indicators of which are outgroup/reference strains, would be helpful to readers. Figure 4 and 5: the symbols '.' and '~' and any others, marked in the figure, should be given a short description in the legend. Can these two figures be combined into one sequence alignment of both RSV subgroups? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Respiratory syncytial virus genotypes NA1, ON1, and BA9 are prevalent in Thailand, 2012–2015 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.3970v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 18, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
