Review History for Loss of CclA, required for histone 3 lysine 4 methylation, decreases growth but increases secondary metabolite production in Aspergillus fumigatus [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Loss of CclA, required for histone 3 lysine 4 methylation, decreases growth but increases secondary metabolite production in Aspergillus fumigatus To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 13th, 2012 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 29th, 2012. The first revision was submitted on November 30th, 2012 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 4th, 2012.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dee Carter
·
Dec 4, 2012
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for taking on board the comments by the reviewers and modifying the manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 30, 2012
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dee Carter
·
Nov 29, 2012
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Reviewer # 1 has some concerns about the novelty of this work and suggests further experiments that could be undertaken to enhance and extend the study. As novelty is not a requirement for PeerJ, and both reviewers find the work to be done to a high standard, I leave it with you to decide whether to incorporate further work as suggested. Both reviewers have questions about some of the experimental design and/or interpretation. Please ensure you address these in your revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 29, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript describes the knock-out of two Aspergillus fumigatus genes, one coding for a member of the histone 3 lysine 4 methylating COMPASS complex (CclA) and the other for a protein similar to H3K4 demethylase (HdmA). A similar knock-out of cclA in Aspergillus nidulans has been previously reported, whereas no studies have been performed with the hdmA gene. The null mutant strains were examined in respect to growth rate, resistance of 6-azauracil, histone methylation, production of secondary metabolites (SMs) and virulence in animal and insect models. The hdmA<U+0394> mutant proved indistinguishable from an isogenic wild-type control in all tests performed. The cclA<U+0394> mutant showed reduced growth rate, deficiency in tri- and di-methylation of H3K4 and relatively increased production of SMs. These results practically duplicate those already found in A. nidulans. None of the two mutant strains showed altered A. fumigatus pathogenicity in animal and insect models, as might have been hoped. Major Point The manuscript is extremely well written and easy to read. The experiments are nicely performed and the conclusions drawn reflect the results obtained. However my main concern is that this is not a complete story and should rather be the beginning of a more in-depth study. For example, the authors state that there is putative protein encoded by Afu5g03430 which might in fact be the major demethylase of H3K4 in the aspergilli, but surprisingly they have not experimentally followed their observation. Another example showing that this is not full story is the very preliminary analysis of the identity of the SMs produced in the cclA<U+0394> mutant. Given that PeerJ is a new journal it also depends on the editors whether they wish to publish complete and original stories or well performed experiments that do not lead to novel knowledge. Maybe a specialized fungal journal for short reports will be more proper for publication of the present work as it is. Some minor points 1.The 6-azauracil test as presented and the reasoning on its action are not convincing to me. I would rather prefer to see real growth tests under various conditions. Is the wt A. fumigatus sensitive to 6-azauracil? At which concentration has this drug an effect? A mutant that affects significantly growth, such as cclA<U+0394>, can be affected indirectly into several metabolic pathways and transport activities. The authors could have easily tested whether specific uracil transporters (homologues of FurD of A. nidulans) have been affected in the cclA<U+0394> mutant, in order to strengthen their reasoning that 6-azauracil sensitivity reflects changes in chromatin. 2.Figure 2 could be reduced. Most articles describing knock-out do not show expended southern blot analysis, at least as primary figures.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1. The 6-azauracil test as presented and the reasoning on its action are not convincing to me. I would rather prefer to see real growth tests under various conditions. Is the wt A. fumigatus sensitive to 6-azauracil? At which concentration has this drug an effect? A mutant that affects significantly growth, such as cclA<U+0394>, can be affected indirectly into several metabolic pathways and transport activities. The authors could have easily tested whether specific uracil transporters (homologues of FurD of A. nidulans) have been affected in the cclA<U+0394> mutant, in order to strengthen their reasoning that 6-azauracil sensitivity reflects changes in chromatin. 2.Figure 2 could be reduced. Most articles describing knock-out do not show expended southern blot analysis, at least as primary figures.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
see basic report
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
no comment Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Loss of CclA, required for histone 3 lysine 4 methylation, decreases growth but increases secondary metabolite production in Aspergillus fumigatus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 15, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This manuscript described an investigation into the roles of CclA and HdmA in Aspergillus fumigatus. Deletion of HdmA does not significantly alter any phenotypes that the authors examined, but the deletion of CclA renders the strain slow-growing. The strain also shows enhanced SM production in vitro. Interestingly, the cclA deletion mutant displays the same level of virulence in the toll fly model and a mouse model. A few specific comments: 1. It is not clear to me based on what is presented in the result that the cclA mutant is defective in transcription. The authors implied in the result section (page 10) that the cclA mutant is specifically sensitive to 6AU. The authors need to list all the compounds tested and the mode of action of the tested compounds. That way, the specificity to transcription can be assessed. 2. It is interesting that the growth temperature significantly affects the amount of SM produced by the cclA mutant. Have the authors checked the histone 3 lysine 4 methylation patterns under these conditions in the cclA mutant and see if there is any correlation? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Loss of CclA, required for histone 3 lysine 4 methylation, decreases growth but increases secondary metabolite production in Aspergillus fumigatus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 13, 2012 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
