Review History for Whole genome sequencing of Rhodotorula mucilaginosa isolated from the chewing stick (Distemonanthus benthamianus): insights into Rhodotorula phylogeny, mitogenome dynamics and carotenoid biosynthesis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Whole genome sequencing of Rhodotorula mucilaginosa isolated from the chewing stick ( Distemonanthus benthamianus ): insights into Rhodotorula phylogeny, mitogenome dynamics and carotenoid biosynthesis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 1st, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 9th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on October 21st, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 23rd, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Abd El-Latif Hesham
·
Oct 23, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Congratulations, The manuscript can be Accepted for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 21, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Abd El-Latif Hesham
·
Oct 9, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As noted by the two reviewers, the manuscript requires a number of Minor Revisions. Please address all their comments.
label_author_1
Debarati Paul ·
Oct 2, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The text is well written and the article is consistently written in professional english. A few long sentences may be reframed to simplify the text for readers. Raw data is shared as required and results are well supported with evidences
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methods used are sufficient for the article and the mitochondrial genome elucidation through 'genome skimming' is very innovative. However, I think the readers would like a more detailed account on 'recovery of the complete mitochondrial genome of R. mucilaginosa using the genome skimming approach' as there are few reports on this this and also this is the main attraction of this review. Thee should be more references on similar genome skimming methods used or on other methods for mitochondrial genome recovery. Otherwise, there are several reports on description of the genome and transcriptome of Rhodotorula. I didnot follow why the authors have focussed on Distemonanthus benthamianus in detail. I think the details should be minimized as the site of isolation has no effect on the description of genome. If there is some significance of this plant in this context then it should be clarified in the article
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data is robust and although there is nothing much to be 'newly' reported, the mitochondrial genome recovery does give this article an edge above the other articles/reports published on genome of Rhodotorula.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The results and discussion section and conclusion section can be made more informative by (1) comparison to other similar reports (2) more description on genome skimming (3) comparing the presence of carotenoid pathway gene(s) in yeast Rhodotorula and plants or bacteria, since the article is more focused on carotenoids production and its importance as a valuable anti-oxidant (4) I believe readers would also want to know details on "homing endonuclease from the LAGLIDADG and GIY-YIG families" and a section can be added on this Cite this review as
Paul D ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Whole genome sequencing of Rhodotorula mucilaginosa isolated from the chewing stick (Distemonanthus benthamianus): insights into Rhodotorula phylogeny, mitogenome dynamics and carotenoid biosynthesis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4030v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 8, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript describes the isolation of a putative endophyte from the plant Distemonanthus benthamianus, its identified as a strain of Rhodotorula mucilaginosa, genome sequencing and analysis of the genome. Primary observations from the genome were the annotation of the mitochondrial genome and identifying the candidate genes for synthesis of carotenoid molecules. The manuscript is a solid set of data. The following points are aimed to improve the text. A general point is that the preexisting literature has been someone sparsely covered in places, and that then limits some of the conclusions that can be drawn. For example: (1)Line 58 species within the genus and “validating the monophyly of the genus Rhodotorula” and line 307. Here consideration of the two Wang et al. 2015 papers in Stud Mycol. 81: 27-53 and 149-89 would be wise, since these were the study to clean up Rhodotorula, as until then the genus was polyphyletic. The conclusion on line 307 is too strong without all the species in the genus being included. (2)Lines 94-97: a key point is that the genes have been mutated and shown to be involved in synthesis of pigment. This was first done in the closely related genus Sporobolomyces (Abbott et al. 2013 Appl Microbiol Biotechnol (2013) 97: 283-295), and then the two genes in Rhodosporidium (=Rhodotorula) toruloides (Koh et al. 2014 BMC Microbiol 14:50; Sun et al. 2017 Biotechnol Lett 39: 1001-1007). (3)Strain RIT389 should be deposited in one or more culture collections, e.g. CBS. Text edits: Line 83: write as “resources for R. mucilaginosa are surprisingly scare in public databases”. Lines 83-84: JGI has also sequenced R. mucilaginosa strain ATCC58901. Given the discussion on the genus, it may be worth pointing out that there are genome projects for other Rhodotorula species. Line 91: “in at least three different fungal species” is too vague. Lines 107-108: Replace “A relatively recent study showed that” with “The”. Lines 192-193: how the identification was may should be clearer, i.e. PCR of ITS and sequencing. Lines 197-198: there appear to be two unrelated points in this sentence, so better split into two. Line 213: add “levels” for “carotenoid levels when”. Line 226: “i.e.” in place of “e.g.”. Lines 233, 235 and 239: spelling of “toruloides”. Lines 237 and 241: using “Rhodotorula sp.” would be better. Line 274: “Identification of a genomic region”. Lines 280 and 281: better with the addition of two commas, as synthase, and carotenoid, . Line 304: “databases” plural. References: check for formatting, e.g. italics on species names, remove capital letters in article titles.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Lines 187-192: (a) This section needs more background on the isolation of the microbe from the chewing stick. (b) While the description may have been what happened, it does not present the authors in a strong light. SEM is over-kill to show something is not a bacterium.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See comment 1 in section 1 about the claims on monophyly of the genus Rhodotorula.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Whole genome sequencing of Rhodotorula mucilaginosa isolated from the chewing stick (Distemonanthus benthamianus): insights into Rhodotorula phylogeny, mitogenome dynamics and carotenoid biosynthesis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4030v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 1, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
