Review History for Hermit crab response to a visual threat is sensitive to looming cues [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Hermit crab response to a visual threat is sensitive to looming cues To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 21st, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 27th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on October 25th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 29th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Valerie Doyere
·
Oct 29, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I believe this paper will make a good contribution to the field. Thank you for your contribution to PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 25, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Valerie Doyere
·
Sep 27, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I do agree with all suggestions from both reviewers, especially about the comparison between the star stimulus in exp 1 and the more naturalistic stimuli in exp 2. The proportion of crabs that hide in each condition in exp 2 would at least provide potential comparison. I do have also a few additional remarks to take into consideration when resubmitting your manuscript: 1- page 7: 'Thus, we also counted instances of freezing and partial hiding as responses to visual threat' - How often these types of behaviours were observed? 2- page 8: The description of the subjects is not clear 'We tested 10 experimentally-naïve crabs on each of three consecutive days. Each crab was only tested on a single day, and the 30 crabs were randomly split into three groups of 10: Expanding, Contracting, and Static. Test order was counterbalanced' It is not clear what the 10 naive crabs did. It is not clear either why independent groups would have a test order. 3- results of exp 1 (fig 4): the results are analyzed as 'proportion of crabs that hid' - there were 15 trials - so what was the criterion for categorizing a crab has hidding ? 4- Exp 2, page 10: The number of subjects does not sum to 27 crabs (8+8+10) 5- Exp 2, results: How were the mean latencies calculated, as the number of trials were potentially not equivalent for all the crabs (because they were stopped if they have reached the habituation criterion). 6- Exp 2, figure 5: the errors bars are huge for 'crab - 32s expansion rate' condition - why? were there two population of animals?
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 11, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Figures 1 and 2 don't contain any scale information. Authors should provide scale. Figure 3: Authors suggest that the stimuli expanded and contracted exponentially to mimic a predator approach with constant speed (lines 160, 166). This is inconsistent with this figure where the size in pixels is increasing linearly. Authors should clarify the discrepancy and depict the stimulus accurately in this figure. Figure 5: Authors should indicate on the figure whether these differences are statistically significant. Authors conducted 15 stimulus presentations for each crab. I suggest that they include the data for each individual crab's probability of hiding and the number of times it took for each crab to hide in the data. Line 45, 56: Reference to Yilmaz and Meister (Curr Biol. 2013 Oct 21;23(20):2011-5. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.08.015. Epub 2013 Oct 10.) would be appropriate as it is a more recent study than the ones the authors cited.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors claim in the abstract that the quicker the stimulus expanded the slower the rate of habituation, however in the results they say (line 223) “because large number of subjects failed to habituate, trials to habituation was not analyzed as a measure of reaction.” I suggest taking this out of the abstract as a main finding.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors presented the results using clear language. I suggest the paper will be ready for publication after the modifications stated above. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Hermit crab response to a visual threat is sensitive to looming cues (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4058v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 25, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is well-written and clear, and appropriate literature is cited. However, the organization of the Methods and Results sections are confusing and seem to overlap, and there seem to be multiple Results and Methods headings. I suggest that the authors have a methods section where they describe the experimental setup, animals, etc., and then a Results section where they describe all the results.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I'm curious as to why the first experiment used a star stimulus, and the second used naturalistic stimuli? That makes it difficult to ask whether the naturalistic stimulus was more effective. Did all the crabs escape in response to the hawk and crab images? If it's not possible to do additional experiments, I would not reject for this, but the data should be included if available.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
It is not clear from figure 2 whether there was any statistically significant difference in the hide latency for the different expansion rates.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Hermit crab response to a visual threat is sensitive to looming cues (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4058v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 21, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
