Review History for New information on the anatomy of the Chinese Early Cretaceous Bohaiornithidae (Aves: Enantiornithes) from a subadult specimen of Zhouornis hani [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History New information on the anatomy of the Chinese Early Cretaceous Bohaiornithidae (Aves: Enantiornithes) from a subadult specimen of Zhouornis hani To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 6th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 13th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on May 6th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 9th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
J. Thewissen
·
May 9, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for amending your manuscript to accommodate the suggestions by the reviewers and myself.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 6, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
J. Thewissen
·
Mar 13, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Whereas the reviewers consider this an important specimen that elucidates a number of anatomical features of this paleontologically significant species, they also identify problems. In my view, it is important that you clarify the collecting/provenance status of the specimen, especially in view of the large number of forgeries that affect avian Cretaceous paleontology. If you cannot provide provenance information, say so, and explain what you do know. I also believe that it is necessary for you to limit the discussion section by removing the speculative functional morphology section. Regarding the tentative statements regarding the age of this individual, make your assumptions more explicit.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 16, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Overall this is a good paper. The descriptions and illustrations are excellent. It is good to have another specimen of this taxon for comparison, and to fill in the anatomical gaps left by the holotype. The major places where this manuscript is deficient relate to the non-anatomical details. First, there is no information about provenience or source of the specimen. Second, no phylogeny. Third, no control on statements about chronological age of specimens. Fourth, speculations about functional morphology are poorly constrained and not tested explicitly, and mostly should be eliminated. Materials and methods 1. Usually a locality map is standard. It is not good enough for the authors to say “possibly the Jiufotang Formation.” The specimen is scientifically worthless without better locality information. 2. The authors also need to detail precisely how and from whom the specimen was acquired. This is because many of these specimens have faked parts and are composites of other specimens. The scientific community will not be able to understand and expose which agents are selling altered specimens, and where they are coming from, unless this information is published up front in each and every manuscript on these specimens – some of which should never have been published in the first place,. 3. It would also be good to have a phylogeny to show readers where this taxon is placed. Discussion 327: You cannot say that a specimen is younger simply because it is smaller. If you have no independent evidence why it is younger, omit the statement, please. As we have learned, statements about relative size and relative fusions of bone are unreliable guides to maturity. Histological analysis on the femora or tibiae of this and the type specimens could address this problem; no other line of evidence is known to be able to do so. 333-338: We have learned time and again that relative size is not a good indicator of maturity. Neither is lack of fusion. If the specimens register an EFS in their outer cortex, they have effectively ceased linear growth. No other indicators are reliable. It is not clear on what basis Zhang et al. (2013) decided that the holotype was sexually mature, and how they used histology to do it; please explain. 345 and many places following: please do not use the term “ecological niche.” A niche is specific to a species, and it encompasses all aspects of the animal's life history strategy, adaptations, and ecological habits. Use the term “adaptive zone” or “resource zone” or “adaptation,” or “ecological role,” depending on what you mean. 354, 360, 366, etc.: “predatorial” is not an English word; please use “predatory” 366-370: this is a bit restrictive in thinking that you can have a particular adaptation or ecological role only if you have exactly the same morphology as a group of living birds has. If you want to discuss functional morphology at all – and you should not, unless you follow its principles – you have to identify the key features that diagnose the ability to perform one function or another. You have not done this here. Wang et al. (2014) were closer to the mark, and I suggest a deeper reading of their paper and an analysis that follows the principles that they describe rather than simply reacting to what they (and Zhang et al. 2013) wrote and going by general similarities. Do you really have evidence that these birds were hunting aerial insects with those feet? Please regard the principles and practices of functional morphology enough to avoid speculation. In the final paragraph of the Discussion, you overlook a very important feature of these claws. You are only considering two-dimensional shape. How robust were they in three dimensions? If this is unknown, it is fruitless to speculate about functions. Claw curvature, length, and robustness are different ecological indicators. This paper could actually do without the functional/ecological speculations because none of them are explicitly tested, and the authors already have a very good paper restricted to anatomy.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
see above for areas in which the validity is questionable.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
no further comments, except that the description is perfectly fine. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "New information on the anatomy of the Chinese Early Cretaceous Bohaiornithidae (Aves: Enantiornithes) from a subadult specimen of Zhouornis hani (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.407v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 9, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript was well excuted and I'm looking forward to seeing it published in Peer J. My detail comments are added to draft, and here are my general comments. 1. All the figures are well taken, but some labbeling in fig. 3 and 4 need to be replaced in order to specify the exact bone element; 2. Additional labeling on Fig. 5, especiialy the caudal vertebrae are welcomed. Besides, the incompelet fusion present in the caudal end of pygostyly is barely visible from fig.5. I would suggest that either a new photo of pygostly is taken or a line drawing is needed. 3. I would like to recommend that the author provide a photograph of whole skeleton of Zhouornis hani holotype, if it is possible. 4. The genus name is Longusunguis, rather than Longiungulavis, and corrected this throughtly. 5. The ecological adaption of Zhouornis is interesting, and any expanded discussion of this part is wlecomed. I have to admit that statistic approch to infer ecological niches of fossil birds is not straightforwad, although many researches have been conducted. My sussgestion is that whether the authors could provide photograps of foot of typical bird or prey (it would be best just the skeleton), which they think are comparable with Zhouornis. What about line drawing, if those modern birds are not available. This comparison would benefit readers a lot.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I'm very interested in the X-ray photos in this manuscript, and would like to see if the author could explicit parameters and working condition of this method in "materials and method" section.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I agree with the authors that referring the new species to Zhouornis and the general conclution about the ecological inferrence. All the disscussion are based on sound anatomical description and comparision.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The paper describes a new referred specimen of Zhouornis hani, and provided detail anotomical description and comparsion, which indeed help to advance our understading of morhology of Enantiornithes. Additionally, the authors proposed predatory specilization for Zhouornis based on general comparison with modern birds, hinting a novel niches for these dominating avian group. I recommened this manuscript to be published in Peer J with minor reivison. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "New information on the anatomy of the Chinese Early Cretaceous Bohaiornithidae (Aves: Enantiornithes) from a subadult specimen of Zhouornis hani (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.407v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 6, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
