Review History for Age-based and reproductive biology of the Pacific Longnose Parrotfish Hipposcarus longiceps from Guam [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Age-based and reproductive biology of the Pacific Longnose Parrotfish Hipposcarus longiceps from Guam To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 22nd, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 29th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on October 31st, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 1st, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
James Reimer
·
Nov 1, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The comments by the reviewers have been responded to well, and the paper is now acceptable for publication. I look forward to seeing the published version!
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 31, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Reimer
·
Oct 29, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have heard back from two reviewers, both of whom offered many constructive comments. Please consider these carefully (and don't forget the annotated PDF file from reviewer 2), and I look forward to seeing your revised version.
label_author_1
Jason Morton ·
Sep 26, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The paper ‘Age-based and reproductive biology of the Pacific longnose parrotfish Hipposcarus longiceps from Guam’ by Taylor and Cruz provides important demographic information about a commercially important species. The manuscript is written very well. The Introduction provides an excellent coverage of the background information and sets up the reasons for this study in the context of information gaps. The Methods and Results were explained well and, despite being unfamiliar with a couple of the analyses performed, literature support was provided to justify their use. I particularly liked the clear structure of the Discussion, which clearly outlined the importance of the findings in the context of relevant literature. Thank you to the authors for providing a manuscript that was enjoyable to read. I have very few suggestions for improving this manuscript. However, the comments listed below should be considered… Abstract: (i)Line 20 – “… and tend to change sex to males…” This is rather ambiguous. I suggest rewording this. Introduction: (i)Lines 43-44 (and elsewhere) – The common name for this species is stated in the title so I do not see a reason for it to be included frequently throughout the manuscript. All references to the common name should be changed to the scientific name. This is the second time the common name for this species is mentioned in this paragraph. (ii)Lines 45-46 – What is meant by “… among the larger species that occurs in Guam…”? Larger species of what? Of parrotfishes? (iii)Lines 55-56 – “… as can be confirmed histologically.” This needs to be referenced. (iv)Lines 60-61 – What is meant by “…whereby age at female maturation had the strongest relationship to…”? Does this mean they mature earlier? (v)Lines 62-63 – Similar to my comment above, what does “… with corresponding life-history traits generally at the far-end of the spectrum.” actually mean? Does this mean at the lower/higher ends of the spectrum or at both ends? Also, what life-history traits are actually getting referred to here? Is it age/size at maturation and sex change? (vi)Lines 66-67 – The way this sentence is constructed it implies that Taylor (2014) suggests that the Guam populations will be larger-bodied and longer-lived. Is this actually the case? If so, it may be more appropriate to place this reference at the end of the sentence. If not, then an additional reference is needed at the end of the paragraph. Methods: (i)Line 133 – There appears to be an issue with the insertion of a symbol here with f() being in a dashed, square box. Results: (i)Line 209 – What is meant by ‘slightly invariable’? Discussion: (i)Lines 272 & 356 –Why is the common name mentioned here and not the scientific name? (see earlier comment) Conclusion: (i)Lines 358-360 – I find this final sentence of the Conclusion a little confusing in what was otherwise a well-written and clear manuscript. I suggest clarifying this sentence to strengthen the ‘take-away’ message from this study. Figures: (i)Figure 2 (caption) – There is repetition of words in this caption that is not needed. I suggest shortening it to read “(a) Sex-specific length- and (b) age-frequency distributions of sampled Hipposcarus longiceps from Guam.” Cite this review as
Morton J ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Age-based and reproductive biology of the Pacific Longnose Parrotfish Hipposcarus longiceps from Guam (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4079v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 3, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The quality of the manuscript is so high, so I gave only a handful suggesting and comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question was well defined, and perfect for the journal.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data is enough for this large sized species, and all result are well reliable.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Age-based and reproductive biology of the Pacific Longnose Parrotfish Hipposcarus longiceps from Guam (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4079v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 22, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
