Review History for Molecular cytogenetic analyses of Epinephelus bruneus and Epinephelus moara (Perciformes, Epinephelidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Molecular cytogenetic analyses of Epinephelus bruneus and Epinephelus moara (Perciformes, Epinephelidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 2nd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 3rd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on May 12th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 13th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Linsheng Song
·
May 13, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been well revised and can be accepted for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 12, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Linsheng Song
·
May 3, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
In this manuscript, molecular cytogenetic analyses were used to identify the closely related species in genus Epinephelus. The reviewers both gave a recommendation of minor revisions. Please address the reviewer comments below.
label_author_1
Roberto Artoni ·
Apr 21, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors report the characterization of two species of marine fish of the genus Epinephelus, whose taxonomy is still complicated and the evolutionary processes are not yet fully understood. Emphasis should be given to multidisciplinary view of the authors to use different tools to explore this model in previous papers. In addition, cytogenetic consider as important for a better definition of the specific epithet for these cryptic species.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design was appropriate for the objectives proposed in this paper.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results are clear and well representative for cytogenetic characterization species. The classical cytogenetics already points difference in the number of chromosomes of two arms between species (E. bruneus with 6 chromosomes and E. moara with 4 biarmed chromosomes).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The article is well presented and features important for marine fish cytogenetics, especially in relation to taxonomy, evolutionary processes and the management of fish stocks information. The techniques employed are appropriate to the purpose of the article and support the discussion. Our suggestion is that small corrections (suggested directly in the text) are carried out and that the article is accepted for publication. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Artoni RF ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Molecular cytogenetic analyses of Epinephelus bruneus and Epinephelus moara (Perciformes, Epinephelidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.412v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 30, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
English writing of the manuscript is not clear enough.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data and the conclusions based on the data are acceptable.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
There have been difficulties in identification of grouper species because of their morphological similarities. This manuscript described molecular cytogenetic analyses to identify the closely related species Epinephelus bruneus and E. moara including chromosomal karyotypes, NORs and 18S rDNA distribution patterns, heterochromatin (interstitial C-bands) and distribution pattern of telomeric sequence. The figures and tables are clearly prepared and the results provided information that E. moara is not a synonym of E. bruneus, but a distinct species. The information will be useful for our understanding of taxonomic status Epinephelidae fish. Therefore I would support the publication of this article. Nevertheless, I feel that there are many English writing and grammatical problems with the current version of the manuscript, which should be carefully corrected. Some of the details are as follows 1. Line 24-25, Grammatical: Nucleolar organizer regions (NORs) distribution pattern and location of 18S rDNA on chromosome. 2. Line 30-31, All results confirmed that E. moara, which has long been considered avsynonym of E. bruneus, is a new species in the family Epinephelidae. Should it be "a distinct species"? 3. Line 62,what means “quantitative variation” here? 4. Line 71-72, ......techniques ......were conducted, used? 5. Line 84-86, It would be helpful to briefly describe the concentration and duration of colchicine treatment. 6. Line 90-92, "After the anatomy of fishes for the acquisition of anterior kidney, muscle tissues and fishes were stored immediately at -80<U+2103> until used for total DNA extraction". 7. Line 96-101, "18S rDNA probes" should be 18S rDNA and 5S rDNA probes. 8. Line 137-138, "While three pairs of acrocentric chromosomes were almost indiscernible in both fish species (Fig. 4A and B)". However, it is not clear in the figure which three pairs are. 9. Line 156-157, What does the authors mean by the sentence "Two ribosomal gene families are located on different chromosome pairs"? 10. "Cytogenetic differences were inter-specific, because E. bruneus and E. moara showed a similar geographical distribution, and coupled with heterogeneously morphological characters and chromosomal structure". How "similar geo Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Molecular cytogenetic analyses of Epinephelus bruneus and Epinephelus moara (Perciformes, Epinephelidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.412v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 2, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
