Review History for Unanticipated discovery of two rare gastropod molluscs from recently located hydrothermally influenced areas in the Okinawa Trough [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Unanticipated discovery of two rare gastropod molluscs from recently located hydrothermally influenced areas in the Okinawa Trough To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 12th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 31st, 2017. The first revision was submitted on November 9th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 13th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Rudiger Bieler
·
Nov 13, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your revised manuscript. I fully appreciate your response to the referee comments and am now happy to move this forward into production.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 9, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Rudiger Bieler
·
Oct 31, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I agree with the reviewers' comments and (as also expressed by Reviewer 2) would like to see some additional discussion concerning the intersection of vent and non-vent species. I look forward to receiving the revised version!
label_author_1
Bruce Marshall ·
Oct 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
See attached report.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
See attached report.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See attached report.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
See attached report. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Marshall B ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Unanticipated discovery of two rare gastropod molluscs from recently located hydrothermally influenced areas in the Okinawa Trough (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4121v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Verena Tunnicliffe ·
Oct 30, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript language is good both in overall structure and specific use. Literature citation is mostly adequate although limited (suggestions below). Figures are fine. Fasta sequences were provided but I don’t see them in DDBJ.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
It’s an observational study. Methods are adequate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
It is fine to draw attention to these records at chemosynthetic systems. However, as neither two species themselves nor the presence of the family at vents is new, I would suggest the authors make a larger contribution by: i)Drawing a better picture of the likely role these animals play in this ecosystem (grazer? predator?) ii)Comment on the intersection of vent and non-vent species. There is a fairly robust literature that details the peripheral vent environment – this record is an important contribution so set it in that context. The most recent review, I believe, is Levin et al. 2016. 2016. Hydrothermal vents and methane seeps: Rethinking the sphere of influence. Frontiers in Marine Science, 3, dx.doi.org/10.3389/fmars.2016.00072 There are quite a few instances of deep-water gastropods on the periphery of vents and seeps – why are they successful in this niche? (I see Buccinum viridum frequently among tubeworms in the northern Juan de Fuca Ridge).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Do you think they are competing with species that use the resources in a similar fashion? Or are these available niches? Why are they not found at the other vents in the region? Suggest that the last sentence of the Introduction is part of the habitat characterization and should move to the Discussion to explain the presence of these taxa. …. and when I get to end of Discussion, I do not understand this “maybe a seep” comment. The best indication of whether it is a cross-over habitat is your list of species – how do they compare with Watanabe et al’s list of vent fauna in the region? Are there seep fauna here, too? Are there any supporting temperature data to decide if there is a thermal anomaly here? Other points L 62: “drastically”? Are you talking about end-member fluids? pH in waters around animals is often no different from seawater. But you can justify if the Okinawa region is notably different in diffuse fluids. l 69: Lutz and Kennish do not really test this idea – but this paper does: Van Dover CL, Trask JL. 2000. Diversity at deep-sea hydrothermal vent and intertidal mussel beds. Marine Ecology Progress Series 195:169-178. l 90: in English, “Neither” takes singular subject and verb. l. 104: remove ‘by the junior author.’ Are there any temperature or chemical measurements made? Good imagery of T. ikukoae. Is the size within the range originally reported for the species? Figure 1: Add N and E to lat/long; attach two or three island names to orient the reader. Also, I think it useful to indicate the other vent sites from Watanabe and Kojima 2015. Cite this review as
Tunnicliffe V ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Unanticipated discovery of two rare gastropod molluscs from recently located hydrothermally influenced areas in the Okinawa Trough (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4121v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 12, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
