Review History for Regulation of KCa2.3 and endothelium-dependent hyperpolarization (EDH) in the rat middle cerebral artery: the role of lipoxygenase metabolites and isoprostanes [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Regulation of K Ca 2.3 and endothelium-dependent hyperpolarization (EDH) in the rat middle cerebral artery: the role of lipoxygenase metabolites and isoprostanes To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 28th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 4th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on May 6th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 15th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jerson Silva
·
May 15, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the changes in the revised manuscript that properly answered the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 6, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jerson Silva
·
Apr 4, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I agree with the reviewers. Please, address the points raised by the two reviewers that recommended publication after revision.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 29, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a well written article investigating the identity of an endothelium derived hyperpolarising factor in the rat middle cerebral artery. Figure legends do not match figures, the labelling has become confused.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methods are comprehensively detailed. Although commonly practised, why is the brain and middle cerebral artery placed in ice cold krebs? Minor point It is the 1986 not 1988 Animals (scientific procedures) act.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results suggest that a LOX metabolite is involved in the EDH response in the rat middle cerebral artery. In figure 1 the authors show that NDGA and ebselen both reduce the EDH response which is further attenuated by TRAM-34. They rightly describe that addition of apamin and iberiotoxin does not further inhibit the EDH response with NDGA, however they suggest the same with ebselen, which does not appear to the case. The addition of apamin and iberiotoxin does appear to further inhibit the EDH response. The authors state that one way ANOVA followed by Tukeys post test has been used, but there is no reference to statistical significances between the different treatment groups e.g. ebselen and ebselen + TRAM-34. If the authors wish to only show statistical difference between control and all treatment groups then a one way ANOVA followed by a Dunnets post test would be more appropriate. Line 172/173 - the authors state that TRAM-34 or apamin alone do not cause significant inhibition (figure 1), however only the data for TRAM-34 is shown.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall this is concise article describing a potential role for LOX metabolites that has been conducted to a good standard. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Regulation of KCa2.3 and endothelium-dependent hyperpolarization (EDH) in the rat middle cerebral artery: the role of lipoxygenase metabolites and isoprostanes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.414v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Sergey Smirnov ·
Mar 30, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This study investigates the role of 12/15LOX metabolites in the EDH response in the rat middle cerebral arteries. The techniques, microelectrode measurements of membrane potential and measurements of MCA relaxation to the PAR 2 agonist SLIGR, and a range of selective pharmacological inhibitors chosen to dissect individual KCa components contributing to EDH in this preparation were adequate and appropriate for the purpose of this study. A number of novel and interesting findings were reported. Using three different LOX inhibitors, it was demonstrated that EDH response due to activation of KCa2.3 and KCa3.1 was reduced suggesting the involvement of LOX metabolites in this preparation. A selective inhibitor of soluble epoxide hydrolase (an enzyme metabolising HEETAs to THETAs,) tAUCB selectively enhanced the KCa2.3 component of EDH in preparations with active NOS, implying that HEETAs could be and an actvator of KCa2.3. This enhancement was not observed when after the inhibition of NOS with L-NAME, but was restored in the presence of the superoxide scavenger tempol, suggesting that ROS may be involved. The nature of 15- and 12-LOX products under control conditions was evaluated using HPLC and 14C-AA as precursor. In the presence of L-NAME very little change in LOX metabolites was seen, instead F-type isoprostanes were increased. This consequently led to the assessment of the effect of 8-iso-PGF2alpha on Em and relaxation and providing the evidence that the KCa2.3 component of EDH could be blocked by activation of TP receptors (that normally could be activated by TxA2) by increased production of F-isoprostanes in the MCA. Overall, it is well planned and well performed study, although the MS requires a careful proofreading to make improve its clarity There are few questions I would like the authors to discuss. From discussion the relation between NOS inhibition and superoxide production and isoprostanes production is not very clear. It is suggested that NO rapidly scavenging superoxide and when NOS is blocked superoxide is increased isoprostane synthesis is increased as a result (lines 321-323). As it has been mentioned above (lines 320-321) the basal levels are greater in MAC, but what could be a potential source of superoxide in a non-stimulated MCA? Considering the approach used in this study, could it be a shift in the balance between NOS functioning as the NO producer and as ‘NOX’ producing superoxide (another known function of NOS)? What could be the source of F-isoprostanes, free AA or that which is still in membrane bound phospholipids? One would expect that free AA will be randomly oxidized by free radicals, yet the results shown in Fig.5 suggest a targeted increase in 8-iso-PGF2alpha? It might be worth thinking about drawing a simple diagram showing possible pathways and mediators responsible for the EDH response in this preparation. That should increase further the impact of the paper. What would be a possible mechanism of inhibition of KCa2.3 mediated by activation of TP receptors? It is unlikely to be an increase in Ca concentration that these receptors are capable to produce. HPLC studies were performed on preparations containing indomethacin. This has certain implications on the interpretation of the results. Firstly, this would explain why no changes TxA2 where measured (lines 316-317). Also, inhibition of COX would shift the balance between AA metabolites may have implication on the estimation of relative contribution of LOX metabolites and isoprostanes produced in conditions when COX is inhibited compared to those when it is intact. These shortcomings need to be properly addressed in discussion. Minor queries. What concentration of tempol was used? Please indicate in methods. L174, L179 L186 & others “-“sign is missing by EDH in mV. When describe the multi-panel figures in the text, please indicate which figure panel you describe (e.g. 2B , 2C etc), it is only done in some cases. In figure legends, referring to bar graphs as histograms is not accurate. Please re-phrase. Cite this review as
Smirnov S ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Regulation of KCa2.3 and endothelium-dependent hyperpolarization (EDH) in the rat middle cerebral artery: the role of lipoxygenase metabolites and isoprostanes (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.414v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 28, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
