Review History for Strain- and plasmid-level deconvolution of a synthetic metagenome by sequencing proximity ligation products [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Strain- and plasmid-level deconvolution of a synthetic metagenome by sequencing proximity ligation products To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 3rd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 28th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on May 6th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 15th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Keith Crandall
·
May 15, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your effect the thorough revision addressing the previous reviewers' concerns. I feel your paper is now ready for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 6, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Keith Crandall
·
Mar 28, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers thought your paper provided a great study with a valid approach and solid conclusions. Both also provide a number of minor issues for you to consider in your revision. I concur with these assessments of your work and encourage you to incorporate their feedback in a revised draft.
label_author_1
C. Titus Brown ·
Mar 13, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I have a few concerns about the methods reporting and availability, addressed in more detail in my general comments. Specifically, both a detailed experimental protocol and a detailed computational protocol should be made available.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments. Looks good.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments. Looks good.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In this paper, Beitel et al. tackle the challenging problem of metagenome contig binning using a Hi-C approach. Metagenome binning is a frustrating challenge that, when done computationally, usually relies on assumptions that are provably false for complex communities; an experimental approach that scales would be tremendously important for understanding complex microbial communities genomically. This Hi-C procedure seems likely to be that approach, although there are still significant technical challenges ahead. Briefly, the authors show that the Hi-C approach of cross-linking DNA to protein via fixation (to stabilize long-range physical associations), then digesting and ligating (to connect fragments that are physically associated), and then sequencing those ligation products (to measure those long range associations), works as a way to bin metagenome contigs. They also show that strain variants can be effectively haplotyped in the same way. (Figure 2 is simply amazing and should be on the cover of some journal somewhere.) Broadly speaking, this is but a first (significant) foray into the problem. The authors analyze a synthetic community consisting of only 5 microbes, in equal ratio; it's great that it works as well as it does, but it remains to be seen how well the Hi-C approach will apply to communities with higher diversity and richness. The conclusions are not overstated, though, and I think it's a well-balanced and important paper. Note that Hi-C is technically difficult and notoriously finicky; this, together with the coverage challenges associated with sequencing high-diversity metagenomes, is likely to be the main barrier to adoption of this technique in the future. My only significant complaint about the paper is that some of the methods need to be explicated better. Details below. Specific comments: The word "simple" should probably be added to "synthetic metagenome sample" in the abstract. Lines 31-39, references to the claims in here would be welcome. Lines 54-58, references would again be welcome. Lines 109-110, details on how contigs were mapped back to the reference assemblies should be provided; I know from experience that this can be parameter sensitive. Lines 111-140, a detailed protocol should be provided somewhere (figshare?); this is going to be very important for others trying to replicate. Line 152, "Custom R scripts" should be made available in a public and archival location. (figshare? github?) I found the Contig clustering section nicely detailed, but I was unable to determine exactly how c_{ij} is calculated. Note c_{i,j}, line 173. I can infer what was done here but it would be nice to have it made explicit. The section is nicely detailed otherwise. Line 182, again, details needed. Line 256, the assembly size didn't change when increasing the quantity of input reads from 5x to 100x? That's extremely surprising, given that 5x coverage should miss a significant amount of true sequence due to sampling error And only 77% of the community reference was recovered?! This sounds like a horrible assembly process and I'm somewhat mystified as to what is going on. Nonetheless, it doesn't need to be addressed since the authors used SOAP-3 for all further analyses but I would suggest omitting discussion of SOAP-1 and SOAP-2 unless it serves some purpose that I've missed. Line 269, "some", line 272 "3%". I would suggest "many" or "most" instead of "some"! Line 283/Fig 1 is very nice! Lines 301-308 suggest to me that the contig clustering analysis was well done and very robust. Line 323-325, excellent. One last comment -- I hate being That Reviewer, but our to-be-released any-day-now PNAS paper on soil metagenome assembly provides a new computational method of binning species that is fairly assumption free (see Pell et al., 2012, for the basic idea of partitioning reads based on assembly graph connectivity; and Howe et al., 2014, available sometime in March '14). Might be worth a read. Signed, C. Titus Brown Cite this review as
Brown CT ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Strain- and plasmid-level deconvolution of a synthetic metagenome by sequencing proximity ligation products (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.415v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
W. Evan Johnson ·
Mar 26, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is clear, well-written and interesting. The format, flow and sections (intro, methods, results, discussion, etc) are appropriate and complete. The figures and tables are appropriate and generally high-quality
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors present a very interesting study utilizing a Hi-C approach in a metagenomic context. They apply their approach using a synthetic (in vitro) bacterial community. They show that their method provides experimental insight that is not available from typical sequencing-based metagenomic studies such as a more accurate approach for strain genotyping. Their methods are well-described and complete.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
They apply their approach using a synthetic (in vitro) bacterial community, and show that their method provides experimental insight that is not available from typical sequencing-based metagenomic studies such as a more accurate approach for strain genotyping. Based on their methods, experiments and computation, I believe their results are valid and of high quality.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Summary: The authors present a very interesting study utilizing a Hi-C approach in a metagenomic context. As the authors state, this type of approach provides information that is not available using a standard sequencing-based metagenomic approach. They apply their approach using a synthetic (in vitro) bacterial community. The show that their method provides experimental insight that is not available from typical sequencing-based metagenomic studies such as a more accurate approach for strain genotyping (when multiple strains of the same species are in the sample) and in identifying incidences of horizontal gene transfer The article is clearly written and the experimental details are clear and complete. I have the following comments/concerns for this manuscript: 1.What is the importance of the simulated reads and assembly in this dataset? Would similar result be obtained by merely aligning the reads to the reference genomes? Could the method still be used if deep sequencing data is not available for a sample? 2.Even though the amount of co-localization of the L. brevis plasmids with other genomes in the synthetic community are low (compared to co-localization within the species), it still seems to show interaction with other contigs from other species. Is this likely due to experimental noise, or is this a real phenomenon? If noise, how can one distinguish between background/noise and real interactions or gene transfers? 3.In the discussion, the authors mention that their approach can be used to detect horizontal gene transfers. I agree that this is the perfect approach for doing this analysis. However, the authors do not demonstrate this result. This decreases the impact and my enthusiasm for the manuscript significantly. Although I do not believe this paper should be rejected without this important piece of data, I would strongly recommend that the authors demonstrate their approach’s ability to detect gene transfers in an experimental setting. 4.The authors provide the commands for generating the simulated sequencing data, but are these data available for download? Cite this review as
Johnson WE ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Strain- and plasmid-level deconvolution of a synthetic metagenome by sequencing proximity ligation products (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.415v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 3, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
