Review History for Forms of Melanoplus bowditchi (Orthoptera: Acrididae) collected from different host plants are indistinguishable genetically and in aedeagal morphology [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Forms of Melanoplus bowditchi (Orthoptera: Acrididae) collected from different host plants are indistinguishable genetically and in aedeagal morphology To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 10th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 6th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on May 16th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 17th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dezene Huber
·
May 17, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have read the rebuttal and reviewed the revised MS and find the revisions to be adequate. Please consider making the review documents public, as it is a good record of the process of publication of these results. Thank you for supporting PeerJ by submitting your research results for review.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 16, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dezene Huber
·
Feb 6, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers suggest accepting this MS with minor revisions. Both have made a few comments separate from the MS, and have also annotated the MS with a number of excellent comments, suggestions, and questions. Please carefully review the annotated PDFs. The authors should review and respond to all of the reviewers' comments (etc.) as doing so will help to further improve this MS. One reviewer wrote this: "The total number of grasshoppers samples collected (13) was too small for either the aedeagus comparison or DNA extractions. Are these grasshoppers too rare to collect? I would have liked to see more samples from each collection site/host plant to make sure representative samples of each type were collected." It is important that the authors respond specifically to this question. I also noticed in the PDF form of the MS that the color plates (Figures 1, 2, and 3) are somewhat pixelated and not completely clear. The figures provided separately from the MS were somewhat better. The authors should ensure the high quality of the figures in the final MS. Both reviewers have indicated that they are fine with their reviews being made public. In PeerJ, it is always up to the author to make a final decision on making reviews public. I would strongly encourage the authors to do so, as it adds considerable value to the final output. Thank you for your submission to PeerJ.
label_author_1
Fikru Haile ·
Feb 6, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Thank you for the opportunity to review this article. I have made my edits on the paper itself (attached). The following is additional feedback. Overall, this is a very interesting research article. The authors have raised an important and legitimate question related to the grouping of the supspecies/types of this particular grasshopper. Because this grouping were done quite a long time ago, it is important to reexamine the validity of the grouping. I am glad to see that they have used some of the modern tools that are available at their disposal such as DNA testing to validate their work. This a valuable project and would recommend for this to be accepted for publication in PeerJ. Here is a couple of feedback for editor to consider: 1. In a couple of places in the article, the authors mention that these grasshopper types can interbreed. I have suggested making changes so that it would read something like this “most likely this is the same species and not different types, which implies that they may interbreed. Since they have not actually tested if these types interbreed, it is not relevant to mention definitively that these types can interbreed. Actually, this article will be much stronger if they have done a lab trial to determine if they actually interbred. Perhaps a follow up work to this paper… 2. The total number of grasshoppers samples collected (13) was too small for either the aedeagus comparison or DNA extractions. Are these grasshoppers too rare to collect? I would have liked to see more samples from each collection site/host plant to make sure representative samples of each type were collected.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
See notes above...
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See notes above...
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
See notes above... Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Haile F ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Forms of Melanoplus bowditchi (Orthoptera: Acrididae) collected from different host plants are indistinguishable genetically and in aedeagal morphology (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.418v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Steven Skoda ·
Jan 17, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Generally, all PeerJ reporting policies appear to have been followed. There are some areas within the manuscript that, on minor rewriting, will be more clear and concise (these 'edits' were placed on the pdf file which is attached elsewhere in the review).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The manuscript meets the requirements expressed in the Scope of the Journal. The submission clearly defined the question and was conducted rigorously. Methods were adequately described to be reproducible. Some comments, intended to ehance clarity, were placed on the pdf file.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data were robust as were conclusions.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript is, generally, well written. Several comments were placed on the pdf file; these are intended to point out some oversights, editing issues and to improve clarity. This reviewer recommends acceptance after revisions. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Skoda S ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Forms of Melanoplus bowditchi (Orthoptera: Acrididae) collected from different host plants are indistinguishable genetically and in aedeagal morphology (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.418v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 10, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
