Review History for Function of JARID2 in bovines during early embryonic development [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Function of JARID2 in bovines during early embryonic development To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 1st, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 13th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on December 2nd, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 4th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Shao-Chen Sun
·
Dec 4, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I think all the concerns raised by the reviewers were addressed, especially the writing of Introduction and Discussion part were improved.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 2, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Shao-Chen Sun
·
Nov 13, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please revise the manuscript according to the reviewers' comments.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 8, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Please double-check the grammatical mistakes in this paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Design good
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The paper is concise, well written and contains some interesting findings.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In this paper, authors investigated the function of JARID2 during bovine embryonic development. They studied the expression pattern during early embryonic process by using qRT-PCR and immunofluorescence and found that the cleavage rate and blastocyst rate were decreased after small interference mediated knocking down of JARID2, which is maily caused by dysregulation of pluripotent related genes expression in 2-cell stage. Finally, they detected the H3K27me3 level and found its level was significantly decreased in all the early embryonic stage. 1. The authors used double-stranded RNA to knockdown JARID1, did the authors detect the change of mRNA level of JARID1 after knockdown<U+FF1F> 2. Manuscript should be written clearly in uniform line spacing. 3. Please move “how to analyse the fluorescence intensity” in line 257-258 into the M&M section. 4. Please double-check the grammatical mistakes in this paper. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #1 of "Function of JARID2 in bovines during early embryonic development (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4189v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 10, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This study identified the expression pattern of JARID2 in bovine oocytes and early embryonic stages and suggested that JARID2 played a key role in early embryonic development by regulating the expression of OCT4, SOX2 and c-myc via the modification of H3K27me3 expression. These results provide new data for the improvement in bovine in vitro embryo culture and understanding the regulation mechanisms in early embryonic development. However some contents need more modifications and explanations. 1. Some common mistakes or different words in English writing. These should be modified. I suggest that authors should check the manuscript carefully and try to avoid any mistakes like these: Line 88 “MII stage”, but “M2 stage” in Fig 1 legend. Line 181, “antibody (Abcom)”, is it “Abcam”? Company name and country should add to the manuscript like Line 161 “siRNA (Gene Pharma, China)”. 2. The Introduction Part. The authors do not have to write the Introduction contents with extra title like “1. DNA methylation” and “2. Histone modification”. I suggest the authors rewrite this small part based on the important factors of histone modification. 3. Fig 2B. The description of Y-axis is missing. In Fig 1B, Fig 4A and Fig 4B, the magnification or standard bar should be provided. 4. The Discussion Part. This part should be more improved. The authors use lots of contents to describe the function of JARID2, H3K9 and H3K27. I think these contents should belong to the Introduction. More discussion like what’s its potential meaning of expression in cell nucleus and the synergy/different effects from this study would attract more readers’ attention. I think contents in line 314-329 are useful.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experimental design is well done.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #2 of "Function of JARID2 in bovines during early embryonic development (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4189v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Nov 13, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This manuscript investigated the function of JARID2 during bovine early embryonic development. JARID2 has been shown to be an important epigenetic regulator for embryonic development via histone modification. Although there have been many reports on the function of JARID2 during early embryonic development, the current study systemically examined the expression pattern of JARID2 in bovine and analyzed its possible regulatory roles on the expression of genes important to the maintenance of stem cell. 1.English writing In general, the manuscript is clear, intelligible and professional. However, the writing could be greatly improved if the manuscript could be reviewed by a native English speaker. The followings are some examples or suggestions: A.It would be consistent if the authors could use past tense to present or discuss their data and use present tense to discuss published data. However, it seems that the tense is randomly used, not consistent. B.Line 41: after knockdown JARID2…………..after knockdown of JARID2 or after JARID2 knockdown. C.Line 42: each early embryonic stages, suggest that JARID2 plays a key role in early embryonic development…………………early embryonic stages, suggesting that D.Line 55: Early embryonic development is when cell division and differentiation are most active and when there is large-scale transcription of zygotic genes……….. Early embryonic development is characterized by the most active cell division and differentiation with large-scale transcription of zygotic genes. E.Line 261: the jumonji histone family….. the jumonji histone demethylase family F.Line 266: JARID2 is a special histone…………. JARID2 is a special histone demethylase member 2.Introduction The introduction is well referenced. However, the introduction could be better structured by making the general introduction of epigenetic regulation more concise and focusing on JARID2 related studies, especially in terms of what is not known. In addition, the significance of the current study should be better defined. 3.Discussion The discussion could be more concise with focus on the significance of current findings. 4.Legend for figure 2-4. Present tense should be used in figure legend.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The experiment is well designed with valid controls.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The results are sound with valid statistical analysis. The quantity of siRNA in cells of blastocysts should be much lower due to siRNA partition during cell division. It should be cautious in explaining the gene expression data without knowing whether enough siRNA exists to interfere with JARID2 in cells of blastocysts.
Comments for the author
No comment Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2017 ) Peer Review #3 of "Function of JARID2 in bovines during early embryonic development (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4189v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 1, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
