Review History for Effect of dark sweet cherry powder consumption on the gut microbiota, short-chain fatty acids, and biomarkers of gut health in obese db/db mice [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effect of dark sweet cherry powder consumption on the gut microbiota, short-chain fatty acids, and biomarkers of gut health in obese db/db mice To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 12th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 7th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on December 5th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 5th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Maria Cristina Albertini
·
Dec 5, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been revised as requested by the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 5, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Maria Cristina Albertini
·
Nov 7, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The paper has interesting results and can be considered for publication after the revisions required by the reviewers are performed.
label_author_1
Franck Carbonero ·
Oct 23, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Nothing to report here
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Were the lean mice db/db as well, or another strain? It may be good to fully describe the lines used (db/db is not the complete descriptor)... L186 colon mucosal cells normally implies host cells, which would not be Bacteria! Maybe you mean mucosal samples?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Figure 1: I am not convinced that showing results at the order level is acceptable. It is way more common to present phylum and genus (family) level. Figure 2 has no place has a main figure, this is not "valuable" data Figure 3: The ANOSIM should give you a p-value which is needed to conclude on the clustering! Figure 4: It would be so much easier if you had the taxon name on each plot! H, L, J, O appear to show very similar values, which raises questions about the statistics... Table 2: I personally have doubts about the validity of Picrust, and seems like the differences you report are all extremely slight. Without a way to test if such differences are not due to stochastic variations in the sampling, I would not report them. Table 3: These results seem completely flawed. There is no way butyrate and propionate are not produced by gut microbes! And the 100X more values in the obese supplemented mice don't make any sense
Cite this review as
Carbonero F ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effect of dark sweet cherry powder consumption on the gut microbiota, short-chain fatty acids, and biomarkers of gut health in obese db/db mice (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4195v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 6, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Discussion could be implemented (see general comments to the author).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Seems quite adapted to the question raised. Studies seem competently performed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are interesting and seem valid and =adequately interpreted.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is an interesting study, which questions the "power" of the gut microbiota to change metabolism of the host. Basically, from a healthy dieting (cherry powder, fiber-enriched), inducing a healthy microbiota composition (enriched in "beneficial" bacteria), and producing "beneficial" metabolites deriving from fermentation of soluble fibers (short-chain fatty acids), no substantial change in several important gut health parameters of the host was observed in a mouse model of diabetes (db/db mice). This is an important set of results, suggesting that the power of microbiota to significantly alter the host metabolism is limited by the genetic bakground of the host. This study resonates in me with another study in relation with the role of fiber-derived SCFAs to improve host glucose control by activating intestinal gluconeogenesis, the benefits being absent in intestinal gluconeogenesis-deficient mice despite the presence of SCFAs and the modification of microbiota (De Vadder et al, Cell, 2014). This suggests that host genetics may dominate the microbiota composition as for regards host metabolism. The paper would be greatly improved by inclusion of a paragraph od discussion addressing this point Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effect of dark sweet cherry powder consumption on the gut microbiota, short-chain fatty acids, and biomarkers of gut health in obese db/db mice (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4195v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 12, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
