Review History for Developmental effects of environmental light on male nuptial coloration in Lake Victoria cichlid fish [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Developmental effects of environmental light on male nuptial coloration in Lake Victoria cichlid fish To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 27th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 1st, 2017. The first revision was submitted on December 8th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 9th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
John Ringo
·
Dec 9, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Very professional job, guys. Interesting paper, and remember that my own field of science is far removed from yours.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 8, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
John Ringo
·
Dec 1, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
We had difficulty getting reviewers on this one, and thus the delay. My apologies. I think you did good work, and reported it well. There are a few minor changes you need to do before we’ll accept the paper. Please follow the reviewer’s and my suggestions; the latter follow immediately. You measured coloration in P. pundamilia (P), P. nyererei (N), and their hybrids (PN), in two environments that simulated light at two depths of water. This gives six sets of measurements: P, N, and PN for shallow water and P, N, and PN for deep water. I can only guess why you reported only the marginal means (e.g., P, N, & PN averaged over lighting regimes). No matter, please report the results of all six groups before moving on to the marginal means. Can you modify Figs. 1 & 3, so that Fig. 1 included information about the rearing condition (D, S) and Fig. 3 included information about the species (P, N, PN)? Maybe you could add points that show these results? I had a bit of trouble figuring out how many fish were used in each treatment, and exactly when “things happened”. If the following summary is not correct, you should re-work the Methods section (exps. 1 & 2), and ask a colleague---some biologist who knows nothing about your work, and preferably who works on something unrelated, such as butterfly ecology or bat behavior---to read the revision and tell you what she understands. Here goes: You used a total of 58 male fish in the study, for experiment 1. These comprised 6 groups, assigned as follows: P. pundamilia – shallow10 P. pundamilia – deep10 Hybrid – shallow10 Hybrid – deep10 P. nyererei – shallow 9 P. nyererei – deep 9 Total58 You reared these fish until age ~643 days, when you switched 24 of the 58 fish to the opposite treatment, 12 from shallow to deep and 12 from deep to shallow. That left 34 unswitched fish, 18 of which were then placed in different aquaria and 16 of which stayed in their original aquaria. Now comes a tricky bit. You photographed each of the constant (unswitched) males 3 times, starting at day ~690, at ~2-week intervals. You photographed the switched males 11 times over a 100-day period, but did not photograph these males at the same age as the unswitched fish for one sample point: the second time point for the unswitched group at ~26 days and the eighth time point for the switched group at 46 days. However, the first and third time points for the unswitched group corresponded roughly to the seventh and ninth time points for the switched group Other minor points: Please report degrees of freedom as whole numbers. When df’s are estimated because of some deviation from assumptions of a parametric analysis, the resulting numbers are not whole numbers. And, when computer programmers write software for statistical analysis, they may forget to output integers instead of real numbers. Thus, df = 12 rather than df = 12.33 and df = 55 rather than df = 55.00). In the context of your interspecific crosses, “F1” refers to offspring of P x N or N x P, and not to P x P or N x N, and “F2” refers to offspring of Hybrid x Hybrid (e.g., lines 148 and following) Table 1 is not necessary.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The cichlid species pair Pundamilia pundamilia and P. nyererei represents a well-studied model system to identify mechanisms of ecological speciation. In the present manuscript, Wright et al. investigate environmental light-induced plasticity in nuptial colouration in this cichlid sister species pair from Lake Victoria. To this end, both species (and their hybrids) were reared under light conditions, which mimic their natural habitats, and male nuptial colouration was quantified based on photographs of fish. The study finds very limited plastic responses in male colouration, and importantly not in the species-specific nuptial colours (blue and red), which have been shown to be subject to divergent selection by female choice. The paper is nicely written, the methods and statistical analyses are sound and the results are generally interpreted adequately. However, a weak point of the study involves the relatively low sample sizes (9 to 10 individuals per species/hybrid and treatment in Experiment 1, and 3 to 4 individuals per species/hybrid and treatment in Experiment 2). This should be addressed in the discussion when interpreting the results. Please find more specific comments below: - Presentation of results, lines 288-307. Are the results presented here based on individuals from both shallow and deep ambient light conditions? This is not made clear, and given the aim of the study (lines 130-139), it would make more sense to present the results for each treatment separately (also in Fig. 1 & 2). - Methods, lines 148-151. Please explain why you used both F1 and F2 crosses. - Lines 158-160. Differences in body size and species identity between neighbours (and also the number of neighbours) might influence the social rank/dominance among males and thus the expression of nuptial colouration. This was (partly) accounted for in the linear mixed models (line 252), however, whether any of these random effects were significant or not is not mentioned in the results. - Lines 202-203. Quantifying nuptial colouration in cichlids is notoriously difficult due to the fact that fish change colouration quickly when stressed - which might be the case when transferring the fish into a glass cuvette. How did you standardize photographs, i.e. make sure that you didn’t take pictures of stressed fish with faded colours? - Please provide legends for supplementary figures and tables. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Developmental effects of environmental light on male nuptial coloration in Lake Victoria cichlid fish (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4209v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 27, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
