Review History for Resounding failure to replicate links between developmental language disorder and cerebral lateralisation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Resounding failure to replicate links between developmental language disorder and cerebral lateralisation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 16th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 14th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on December 9th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 11th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
David Reser
·
Dec 11, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised version presents a strong case, and should be a valuable contribution to the existing literature in this discipline.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 9, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Reser
·
Nov 14, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both Reviewers indicated that this is a good study, which is likely to make a strong contribution to the literature in the field. However, both also suggested specific revisions which will improve the final published version, and I urge you to carefully address their recommendations in the revised version. I look forward to receiving your resubmission, and I thank you again for choosing PeerJ as a forum for your work.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 23, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is generally clear and well written, and the coverage of literature is appropriate. The tables and figures are clear. If anything, the data are over-analyzed, but this is understandable given that the results are largely negative with respect to the hypotheses under test—and with respect to previous claims. Some of the statistical techniques will be unfamiliar to many readers, but as far as I can tell they are appropriate. I think the formula for computing LI should be given, along with more detail as to how their significance was tested for the assignment into laterality groups (binomial? T-test?). The data have been made publically available.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
One concern with the design is that the study was based on twins, and there might be some question as to whether the results can be generalized to nontwins. This is perhaps a relatively minor issue, although there is some evidence, again inconsistent, that twins may be slightly more likely to be left-handed than nontwins (as claimed, for example, by Annett). It might be worth citing the very large-scale study by Medland et al.. (2009, Neuropsychologia, 47, 330-337) showing effectively no difference in handedness between twins and nontwins, or between MZ and DZ twins. The idea that MZ twins of opposite handedness derive from mirror-splitting of the ovum can probably be dismissed, as the authors suggest, and it might be worth noting that the left-handed member of mirror pairs is typically left-dominant for language—just as left-handers in general are (e.g., Badzakova-Trajkov, et al., 2010. Neuropsychologia, 48, 3086-3093). The authors cite McManus (1981) as evidence that handedness is unaffected by birth stress, although there are (or were) claims to the contrary, and there may be more than just birth stress that differentiates twins from nontwins. It seems that the groups were not completely matched on IQ, and given the standard deviations I suspect the difference may be significant. Of course this partly reflects the language impairment in the DLD group, but I wondered whether they might be matched on nonverbal IQ. It would also have been useful to know whether there were differences between the MZ and DZ twins. I realize that this will be the topic of another report, but I did wonder whether it might qualify the results reported here. The sex difference might also be a (minor) issue, and I think it is generally better to include possible confounding effects in the model rather than dismiss them if their effects are not significant. These are actually fairly minor points, and the results are compellingly negative even if they are considered. Any minor deficiencies in design can be weighed against the fact that the samples were impressively large, and the analysis comprehensive. I might add though that previous reports of significant effects should not be attributed to lack of power, which has to do with Type II error, not Type I error.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In spite of some minor issues of design, the results are impressively negative with respect to the hypotheses being assessed. Acceptance of a null hypothesis (or rejection of the experimental hypothesis) is always an issue, given the logic of hypothesis testing, but here the p-values are impressively large. I wondered if the finding of a slight right-hemisphere bias for the TD group might reflect different strategies during the fTCD sessions. Perhaps some of the participants were more likely than others to incorporate mental imagery while describing the cartoon action. I wonder if the results would have been different had a task without a visual component, such as word generation, been used. The authors do acknowledge that use of different measures of cerebral asymmetry might yield different results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a bold and commendable report, especially given that it seems to contradict some of your own previous findings. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Resounding failure to replicate links between developmental language disorder and cerebral lateralisation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4217v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 10, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article meets the necessary standards - it is clear, with professional English used throughout. The article does cite sufficient and relevant references although I note that one review that seems very relevant and complementary to this paper has not been cited - Mayes et al Dev Med Child Neurol. I think this was a 2014 or 2015 publication and am sure it focused on MRI evidence for or against the lateralisation hypothesis. It concluded that the field is a mess due to small numbers of participants, inconsistent MRI methodologies in terms of data acquisition and analysis methods etc. Whilst an MRI method was not applied in this paper, I would imagine that the findings of this review would serve to further strengthen the rationale for yet another study in this area (ie you address a number of the limitations of the field reviewed in their paper)? The paper has a professional article structure and is self-contained with relevant results to the hypothesis posed.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Question is well defined. Strong participant numbers for this field. Rigorous investigation performed to a high standard.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a careful body of work that builds on past related work by this leader of the field and team. I wonder if there is any room for inclusion of genetics discussion in this paper? Is Clyde Franks and team at Max Planck Institute in Nijmegen working in this space re genetics. Would be worth adding in a few lines on what has been found around hereditary links for language, lateralisation and handedness. Could this be an important missing variable in the debate in this field - ie we keep focusing on brain and behaviour but are genes missing here to make this a more sophisticated argument and get us into more specific genotyping of cases ...presumably this is a highly complex genetic relationship that will not be unravelled for many decades - but perhaps worth a mention as regards future direction... Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Resounding failure to replicate links between developmental language disorder and cerebral lateralisation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4217v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 16, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
