Review History for Boundaries in ground beetle (Coleoptera: Carabidae) and environmental variables at the edges of forest patches with residential developments [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Boundaries in ground beetle (Coleoptera: Carabidae) and environmental variables at the edges of forest patches with residential developments To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 13th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 16th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on December 12th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 13th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Scott Ferrenberg
·
Dec 13, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The new version of this manuscript sufficiently incorporated reviewer suggestions and addressed all editorial concerns. The authors also accounted for reviewer comments from a prior review at a different journal. The identification of habitat boundaries and transitions is increasingly important in ecology and conservation. I agree with the authors that this shorter exploration and validation of a novel method, submitted to PeerJ, represents an advance. The methods tested and described in this manuscript have great potential to guide advanced efforts to more quantitatively identify boundaries in both biotic and abiotic variables. Thank you for this fine contribution.
External reviews were received for this submission. These reviews were used by the Editor when they made their decision, and can be downloaded below. Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter Download external reviews Download external reviews
- submitted Dec 12, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Scott Ferrenberg
·
Nov 16, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Given the substantial changes made in this manuscript compared to the previously reviewed versions, it was my decision to request additional expert reviews. Both reviewers see this version as an improvement and have made suggestions for minor revisions. I agree with the reviewers that with some relatively minor changes this manuscript will be ready for publication. In particular, take note of literature recommended by Reviewer 1 that can be incorporated into the introduction and discussion to capture the most timely research in this area. Also, Reviewer 2 poses some questions regarding key definitions and aspects of the analytical approaches to identifying boundaries. Addressing these points with simple text additions in the methods will help to reduce any similar questions or confusion for readers. In addition to these points, I recommend some minor text edits detailed below. Please note that PeerJ does not offer suggestions for text editing at the proof stage so be sure to thoroughly proof your manuscript ahead of submitting a revision. Line 112: Please note the units in "9 x 9" as either "9 m x 9 m" or "9 x 9 m square". Also, using the multiplication symbol instead of the letter x is recommended. Line 114: Please state the lowest number of traps used in any site compared to the 230 commonly deployed. Line 120-121: Please state the total number of times traps were collected so that readers do not have to calculate this value from the dates. Line 124: This one sentence long paragraph can be combined with the subsequent paragraph of a similar theme. Line 136: Again, this one sentence paragraph can be combined with the previous paragraph on environmental characterization. Lines 177-187: This section can be one paragraph.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 3, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comment.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This interesting manuscript is dealing with the identification of boundaries in environmental variation and ground beetle community structure using triangulation wombling. Moreover, the authors tried to determine whether these boundaries are related. The topic of the manuscript is very interesting and relevant, since ecological responses to the presence of habitat edges are one of the most extensively researched topics in ecology. The main strength of this manuscript is the use of a novel and powerful spatial partitioning technique, the triangulation wombling, to identify boundaries. Objectively identifying boundaries is a key topic in edge studies, as different groups of organisms may operate at different spatial scales, and what appears as a homogenous patch to one species may comprise a very heterogeneous patchy environment to another. Earlier this manuscript was submitted to the Ecosphere and the Ecology and Evolution and was thoroughly reviewed. Based on the reviewers’ comments, the authors completely re-wrote and substantially improved the manuscript. The present form of the manuscript is generally well written. The analyses are well explained and straightforward, and the discussion is sound. The most recent edge studies on ground beetles (e.g. Urban Ecosystems, 20: 971-981, 2017; Forest Ecology and Management, 384: 371-377, 2017; Journal of Insect Conservation, 20: 49-57, 2016; Ecological Research, 31: 799-810, 2016), however, are not referred in the manuscript. Please cite and discuss these papers. Based on the above, this manuscript is valuable and should be published. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Boundaries in ground beetle (Coleoptera: Carabidae) and environmental variables at the edges of forest patches with residential developments (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4226v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 14, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I am not an expert on beetles, pit traps, nor triangulation-based methods, so I can only comment from a general science and statistics perspective. I don't know the "triangulation wombling" was explained well for a journal of general readership. E.g.: "Second, we calculated a rate of change and its orientation for each triangle using the values of a variable of interest at the triangle’s vertices." Rate of change of what with respect to what? How do you define the "orientation" of a triangle? I had to look up the referenced book to determine that "traingulation wombling" involves a finite-difference method for approximating spatial derivatives in multiple dimensions and orientation is that of the approximated gradient. This method naturally would involve some assumptions about continuity that I doubt are checked in practice, but for detecting "boundaries" that run perpendicular to large gradients perhaps that doesn't matter. From a statistical perspective, the layers of estimation atop the data were a bit uncomfortable. First, finite-difference derivatives are calculated. From that boundaries are detected at p=10% significance and with various thresholds. Then the boundary overlaps were calculated, also at p=10% significance. This looks like a typical use of this method, but I do not find it ideal. Otherwise, the paper looks fine to me.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
no comment Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Boundaries in ground beetle (Coleoptera: Carabidae) and environmental variables at the edges of forest patches with residential developments (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4226v0.1/reviews/2 External reviews were received for this submission. These reviews were used by the Editor when they made their decision, and can be downloaded below. Download Original Submission (PDF)
Download external reviews Download external reviews
- submitted Oct 13, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
