Review History for ­Comparative spigot ontogeny across the spider tree of life [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History ­Comparative spigot ontogeny across the spider tree of life To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 26th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 25th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on November 15th, 2017 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 14th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Sara Goodacre
·
Dec 14, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript presents findings that allow us new insights into the evolution of particular morphological structures in spiders. The analyses and discussion are robust, clearly explained and thoughtful.
label_author_1
Robert Raven ·
Dec 8, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The english is excellent, the references complete correct and through, and figures appropriately labelled. I had no complaint with the original submission but this is slightly improved.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The scope and aims are well defined and answered. The methods are well designed and thoroughly documented. Excellent work!
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Although the results may not be earthshaking to some, to me they are really valuable and open new paths for future investigation. It is truly great work! Congratulations to the authors!
Cite this review as
Raven R ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "­Comparative spigot ontogeny across the spider tree of life (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4233v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 15, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Sara Goodacre
·
Sep 25, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Dr. Alfaro, Your manuscript has been reviewed carefully by two reviewers. I agree very much with the first reviewer, who emphasises the importance of the science that you present here. I also agree with their suggestion that the manunscript would benefit from some restructuring. I encourage you to consider incorporating the range of suggestions made regarding how to present and discuss your findings.
label_author_2
Robert Raven ·
Sep 5, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The language is a bit verbose and very passive. The mss conveys a LOT of detail which is very important but diluted by the excesses. The following are examples: it is interesting that; e.g., we found this to be the case; we also found that the most likely state; it is possible that; we determined that; it is possible that; This means that; it would be helpful; we found that; we do know that; it is possible; etc. etc. Recheck spelling of all family names. The addition of the initials of a species author seemed excessive and if it is a journal demand then it is mostly unnecessary. In only few cases are the author's initial needed, eg. L. Koch vs C.L. Koch, O.P-Cambridge vbs F.O.P, Cambridge. In a number of cases, e.g. line 420, 525, references are needed. Unless the information is provided new here, cite a source. Also, ease off on the conjecture, e.g. line 524, 574.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The science is EXCELLENT; the depth and rigour of the analyses is more than adequate and the questions posed/tested great! This is a very important work that MUST be published. Be careful with new "terms", like flankers and webless. Either put it in quotes are explain it. Please think about people for whom English is NOT their first language, e.g. l. 425 "hold steady" won't translate. line. 517, must end in ', respectively" Also, "sit and wait" works but "sit and pursue" seems contradictory, are these standard, if so, cite the original usage.l. 451. [We also observed snip!]... on PLS of both species" Which sexes?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are totally consistent, very valuable. However, the conclusions are useless, they should resemble something like the abstract.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Really, it could do with a powerful tightening of language and probably a better structure of presentation of that amazing and valuable information you have. Cite this review as
Raven R ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "­Comparative spigot ontogeny across the spider tree of life (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4233v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Martin Ramirez ·
Sep 18, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article is well written in general, the references and context are well covered. I think the title is a bit “overscoping” - it is supposedly about ontogeny in spiders, but the ontogenetic content is presented on a specific clade of Araneomorphae (Entelegynae). I know that journals and authors usually benefit from that :)
Experimental design
label_ed_3
295 al., 2016). We used a maximum likelihood method with a model of the weighted rate matrix of 296 substitutions for these spigots (Table 6). -- How was made the distinction between "absent" and "loss" in the scored species (data)? Rates in Table 6 need an explanation. (Same with Table s2). It seems very strange that only a few scattered and rather derived taxa lack any MS-Fl-PsF, and yet the ancestral state is inferred as "absent". This probably comes from the rate matrix, which needs a justification. (Otherwise the interpretation of lines 388-390 is dubious.)
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Figure 4: Where the identification of Pseudoflagelliform for Phyxelida comes from? I suspect it is arbitrary, since no histology was made (all were labeled as MS in Griswold et al. 2005). 384 gland spigots on the PLS (Table S1, Townley & Tillinghast, 2009). The predominately green 385 (Loss of MS spigot) clade was the RTA clade, -- but green = "MS" 386 blue/green (Pseudoflagelliform or Modified, respectively) -- but blue = "none" 340 ... In both species, a larger spigot was tentatively 341 identified as a ‘modified spigot’ (see Griswold et al., 2005: 61; character 96), with a potential 342 pre-modified spigot observed in the penultimate female stage of D. tenebrosus. These made no 343 other appearance in the ontogeny of both species spinning fields (Table 1, Figs. 7, 8). -- This is strange, as there is no nubbin of a modified spigot (MS) in the male. According to my experience, MS spigots leave a nubbin in male (Ramirez 2014: Table 5). The potential MS of Hogna is worth illustrating, since no MS was ever reported for lycosids. This finding is later downplayed in the Discussion.
Comments for the author
Minor edits: 73 2016). The former “Orbiculariae” Deinopoidea (cribellate orb builders) are now sister to the 74 RTA clade (includes wolf spiders and jumping spiders) rather than to the Araneoidea (sticky-silk 75 orb weavers) and Deinopoidea may not even be monophyletic (Garrison et al., 2016; Wheeler et 76 al., 2016). -- I would say "closer" rather than "sister", because these relationships are unstable, and the Deinopoiea are not monophyletic, according to those studies. Table 2 needs some explanation in the legend. -- revise English: 99 & Opell, 2002; Blackledge et al., 2009; Pechmann et al., 2010). It is possible the higher 100 fecundity trends observed in orb-weavers and non-web builders compared to cribellate silk users -- revise English: 163 taxa, particularly the singular, fiber producing spigot (MS, FL, PF) the on the PLS? 107 ... Most 108 of the Araneomorphae spiders possesses five types of spigots with another two appearing in ... 111 ... These are ... 116 ... 4) aciniform gland spigots (AC) on the PMS and 5) 117 aciniform gland spigots on the PLS that produce silk used in prey wrapping and lining egg sacs, 118 as well as the sheet portions in non-orb webs; and 6) cylindrical (=tubuliform) gland spigots 119 (CY) on the PMS and 7) cylindrical gland spigots on the PLS which are female specific and 120 produce fibers that form the egg sac (Fig.1, and see Fig. 1 in Garb, 2013). -- items (4-5) and (6-7) sound like of the same type. 130 paracribellar spigots on the PMS. However, in T. perfuga, the modified spigot is flanked by two 131 smaller, unknown spigots whose function is currently undetermined (R.E. Alfaro, unpublished 132 data). -- you can use Griswold et al. (2005) as a reference for this in T. radiata and many others. 291 N.I. Platnick (1987; Hypochilidae), Kukulcania hibernalis (N.M. Hentz, 1842; Filistadidae), -- Filistatidae 292 Thaida peculiaris F. Karsch (1880), -- ... (1880, Austrochilidae), 292 ... Megadictyna thilenii F. Dahl (1906; Nicodamidae) -- Megadictynidae 293 ... The Nicodamidae are sister -- Nicodamoidea Cite this review as
Ramirez MJ ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "­Comparative spigot ontogeny across the spider tree of life (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4233v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 26, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
