Review History for First evidence of bryophyte diaspores in the plumage of transequatorial migrant birds [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History First evidence of bryophyte diaspores in the plumage of transequatorial migrant birds To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 8th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 25th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on May 19th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 20th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Anna Traveset
·
May 20, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am glad that you considered all comments given by the three reviewers, which I do think have improved considerably your ms. Your study will surely be a valuable contribution to the field of dispersal ecology.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 19, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Anna Traveset
·
Apr 25, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Your ms has been evaluated by three referees who all agree that your ms will be a valuable contribution to the field of seed dispersal. They all make useful suggestions that I hope will be helpful to you when writting the next version of the ms.
label_author_1
Andy Green ·
Apr 14, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
An important paper well worthy of publication after modifications have been made. The authors use the terms "endochory" and "ectochory". I have never seen this before, and the usual terms are "endozoochory" and "ectozoochory" (OR epizoochory). Either change to these, or cite a source in which your terms have been used before. Contrary to what the authors state, studies in other organisms suggest many more propagules will be dispersed a long distance by endozoochory, which could potentially account for bipolar distributions, see Brochet et al. 2010, Sánchez et al. 2012 regarding endo vs. ecto. The suggestion that endozoochory can only disperse propagules over a short distance is also not supported by the broader literature, especially Proctor 1968 and Viana et al. 2013. I think Cruden’s 1966 paper which the authors cite is unreliable as it does not take into account Proctor’s work. There is a major need for the authors to take into account the historical literature for related taxa, notably Proctor 1961 which shows internal dispersal of bryophytes by waterbirds, and Warner & French 1970 on viability of fungal spores attached to birds. Recent papers well worthy of mention are those by Pauliuk et al. 2011 and Pineiro et al. 2012, as well as the review on ectozoochory by Figuerola & Green 2002. I agree that wind is unlikely to move spores between hemispheres and hence to explain bipolar distributions, see Wilkinson et al. 2012 line 32, I think the word “if” should be deleted? Lines 117-119. For plants see also Brochet et al. 2010. But this statement made by the authors is not strictly true, given the evidence also for fungi from Warner & French 1970. Line 228 Sphagnum is spelt wrong.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
How exactly were feathers collected? Was it by shooting birds for example? Please mention the method for bird collection, and consider the risk of whether feathers were contaminated with spores during the collection process, e.g. by falling onto vegetation. “A few feathers were sampled from each bird”. Please be more specific about what “a few” means, with at least approximate sample size. In the online resource, I am missing a clear identification of what these 18 diaspores are thought to represent. The authors made no efforts to demonstrate that the spores they observed were viable. This should be recognized and discussed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data are important and the study is novel. However, the authors go too far in their suggestion that ectozoochory is more important for endozoochory for these plants, since they do not study endozoochory. I think they should simply suggest that the potential for endozoochory should also be studied in detail.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
REFERENCES CITED IN MY REPORT Brochet, A. L., M. Guillemain, H. Fritz, M. Gauthier-Clerc, and A. J. Green. 2010. Plant dispersal by teal (Anas crecca) in the Camargue: duck guts are more important than their feet. Freshwater Biology 55:1262-1273. Figuerola, J., and A. J. Green. 2002. Dispersal of aquatic organisms by waterbirds: a review of past research and priorities for future studies. Freshwater Biology 47:483-494. Proctor, V. W. 1968. Long-distance dispersal of seeds by retention in digestive tract of birds. Science 160:321-322. Proctor, V. W. 1961. Dispersal of Riella spores by waterfowl. Bryologist 64:58-61. Sanchez, M. I., F. Hortas, J. Figuerola, and A. J. Green. 2012. Comparing the potential for dispersal via waterbirds of a native and an invasive brine shrimp. Freshwater Biology 57:1896-1903. Viana, D. S., L. Santamaria, T. C. Michot, and J. Figuerola. 2013. Migratory strategies of waterbirds shape the continental-scale dispersal of aquatic organisms. Ecography 36:430-438. Warner, G. M., and D. W. French. 1970. Dissemination of Fungi by Migratory Birds - Survival and Recovery of Fungi from Birds. Canadian Journal of Botany 48:907-&. Wilkinson, D. M., S. Koumoutsaris, E. A. D. Mitchell, and I. Bey. 2012. Modelling the effect of size on the aerial dispersal of microorganisms. Journal of Biogeography 39:89-97. Cite this review as
Green AJ ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "First evidence of bryophyte diaspores in the plumage of transequatorial migrant birds (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.424v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Casper van Leeuwen ·
Apr 16, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Findings are valid, however, the conclusions could be put in slightly better context. An ignorant reader may conclude that the manuscript provides first evidence for "carrying" of spores in the plumage of birds (as stated in the title), while the actual finding is "presence" of spores in the plumage of birds that might migrate over long distances later in the season. Some more specific comments about that below.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a well-written manuscript on the presence of spores in the plumage of migratory shorebirds. I only have a few remarks. Title The title now suggests the manuscript found “first evidence for carrying spores”, however, if one assumes “carrying” means “transport” there is no further evidence for this in the manuscript. I suggest to change the title to something about the “presence” of propagules on the feathers of birds. Still interesting, but quick readers might otherwise misread and assume the birds carried the spores from or to the breeding grounds. Abstract Endochory is more often referred to as endozoochory, similar for ectochory vs ectozoochory, which would make your manuscript more searchable. As of yet, I am not aware or any plants that specialized their seeds or fruits to facilitate ectozoochory in birds, which is suggested in line 6. While ectozoochory in large mammals has found many adaptations of seeds to attached to fur, in birds, fruits and seed coats are more likely adaptations for endozoochory and not so much to cling to feathers for as far as I know. This would be in contrast to your statement, suggest to rephrase. Line 13: add a sentence that these diaspores were local and not transported yet, to avoid confusion. Introduction Line 12: add a sentence explaining why e.g. humans or wind cannot explain such disjunct distributions. I now assume there is no suitable habitat for these species anywhere between the poles, so if spores land in between on lower latitude areas there is no potential for colonization (even not at high altitudes?). Line 32: check sentence, “if” seems misplaced Line 34: maybe you´re interested in reading the following recent papers on endo- and ectozoochory of bryophytes: Boch, S., Berlinger, M., Fischer, M., Knop, E., Nentwig, W., Tvºrke, M. & Prati, D. (2013) Fern and bryophyte endozoochory by slugs. Oecologia, 172, 817-822. Pauliuk, F., Muller, J. & Heinken, T. (2011) Bryophyte dispersal by sheep on dry grassland. Nova Hedwigia, 92, 327-341. Line 35: the part “prior to migration” What about the timing of attachment to birds? You sampled during June and July, when do the birds leave the breeding grounds? See my later comment at line 94. Methods Lines 60-65 and Table 1: list all birds that have been checked for the presence of spores. This would give a more complete picture of the frequency of occurrence of spores on feathers, as now from Table 1 the rate of attachment seems higher due to not including the feathers that were checked but did not contain diaspores. This is important for the statement in your last sentence of the abstract. Line 70 and 71: suggest to check some values. Spinning at 14 g seems very slow, should this be 14000 g? Similar for vortexing at 748 g, is this a conventional lab-bench-vortex? Line 73: re-centrifuged also at 14000 g? Results & Discussion Line 94: discuss the timing effect of carrying spores in the plumage of birds. If such spores are only available during limited times in the year (I am no moss expert) this would have impact on the potential ectozoochory. If the birds carry mosses during June/July but not anymore during August when they start southwards migration, this should be mentioned. If the timing is similar, this could be worth to explicitly add. Line 116: this paragraph on which birds might be suitable vectors would be interesting to expand into a scheme, or you could rank species for suitability as vectors based on (1) overwintering sites and (2) timing of molt. It is essential that the species flies to suitable habitat (Dunlin overwintering in Mexico may fly a long way but still contribute little to Antarctic biodiversity?) and that the species does not molt before departure. If spores attach to summer plumage, and species molt after the spores have been formed before departure on migration, this attachment may have little ecological relevance. I suggest to discuss this a bit more, perhaps including which bird species are in this scenario the most plausible vectors. This would greatly benefit future research. Line 120: “sporic plants lack such adaptations”, unless you consider having small spores is an adaptation for dispersal, as small seeds have an advantage in dispersing by zoochory as well as wind. Line 125-128: although the first part of the sentence is true, the second part is a bit strong. I suggest to refer back to the prerequisites for transport at the end of your introduction for the second part: “showing that…the first part of potential transport requirements is met”. Whether or not this is a “relevant mechanism “ implies a lot of extra speculation, e.g. 1) transport with birds on migration 2) survival of the flight 3) detachment upon arrival 4) arrival in a suitable habitat 5) possibility to establish there 6) that other dispersal mechanisms are not stronger and more important…etc. This you partly discuss further on in the discussion so should maybe not be silently implied already before. Line 142: more than half of the 21 propagules were found on one bird. Was there something special about this bird? Was it unable to clean its plumage or sick for instance, as often sick birds are full of propagules? It should be mentioned in case the bird was sick, but is also worth mentioning if the bird was perfectly fine. Good luck with your work! Casper van Leeuwen Cite this review as
van Leeuwen C ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "First evidence of bryophyte diaspores in the plumage of transequatorial migrant birds (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.424v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Apr 23, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript adheres to the journal reporting guidelines.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The experimental design is accurately described and appropriate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
This manuscript does not set out to statistically test a specific hypothesis but instead it reports a new bit of natural history with potential consequences for the global biogeography of sporic plants. The authors are cautious with the interpretation of their results, as trans-equatorial dispersal is not proven but only suggested based on the presence of diaspores on bird feathers prior to migration.
Comments for the author
Major comments On table 1 the authors indicate the date at which each bird with diaspores was sampled (June-July), but those dates are not put into context regarding the beginning of the migration. The closer the sampling date is to the beginning of the migration, the stronger the support for LDD. I missed a paragraph on the discussion dealing with this issue. The authors refer to LDD as the only mechanism that can explain the disjoint distribution of sporic plants (lines 122/3). I don’t know enough about the paleo-distribution of these plant groups as to argue otherwise, but I think that the possibility that bipolar distributions might be the result from vicariance from larger distributions from precious glaciations deserves some brief, discussion in this manuscript. The identity of the 21 diaspores found and their vectors is not comprehensively presented. I think this information should be included into table 1 (see specific comment below). Minor comments L25“Endochory” and “Ectochory” are more commonly referred to as “endozoochory” and “epizoochory” in ecological literature, and I think it would benefit the paper to use the most common nomenclature. L32Delete the “if”. L37/8Delete “74 breast feathers from”. As feathers collected from the same bird are not independent samples, it would be better to report and discuss the results only based on the number of screened individuals rather than feathers (also in table 1). L119Plants with unspecialized and endozoochorous diaspores have also been reported on the feathers of migrating birds, see Costa et al 2013 J. Avian Biol. L127Consider using “suggesting” instead of “showing”. Table1The table would be a lot more informative if you include a column with the identity of the diaspores found in each vector (i.e. 21 rows). The information on the number of feathers screened can be merged inside brackets into the column “Nº of individuals screened”. It could also be interesting to include the species and sample size for birds that were screened but had no diaspores. It’s not clear why you mention that more than 12 diaspores have been found on the Red phalarope, instead of indicating the real number of diaspores found. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #3 of "First evidence of bryophyte diaspores in the plumage of transequatorial migrant birds (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.424v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 8, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
