Review History for Weekend effect in upper gastrointestinal bleeding: a systematic review and meta-analysis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Weekend effect in upper gastrointestinal bleeding: a systematic review and meta-analysis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 11th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 22nd, 2017. The first revision was submitted on December 11th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 18th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Yeong Yeh Lee
·
Dec 18, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for making efforts to improve the language of manuscript. The comments from reviewers have been addressed adequately and I am happy to accept the paper in its current revised form.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 11, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Yeong Yeh Lee
·
Oct 22, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Overall, the comments from reviewers were minor. However, there remains a concern on language despite editing, and I strongly recommend authors to look again at their manuscript in more detail since I have noticed a few spelling mistakes myself. In addition, for time to endoscopy, it is unclear in the text if there is a difference between variceal and non-variceal bleeding, and this is important especially the results showed a difference in mortality between the two. I also agree with other reviewers that reporting of studies is extremely important, and this should be given in more details and explained if necessary (for example Jairath 2011, why is there a large mean difference in time to endoscopy?).
label_author_1
Thevaraajan Jayaraman ·
Sep 29, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Report written using a good standard of English. Concise and clear use of language to convey the intended message effectively. Use of professional help for manuscript editing noted and commendable. Seven figures and one table included in the article. Figure 1 shows flowchart of selecting eligible studies. Figure 2 shows Forest plot of OR for total mortality (30-day and in-hospital mortality) due to UGIB during weekend versus weekday. Figure 3 shows Forest plot of OR for in-hospital mortality only. Figure 4 shows Forest plot of OR for in-hospital mortality in a subset of patients with UGIB due to variceal bleed. Figure 5 shows Forest plot of OR for in-hospital mortality in a subset of patients with UGIB due to non-variceal bleed. Figure 6 shows Forest plot of mean time to endoscopy during weekday versus weekend. Figure 7 shows Funnel plot assessing bias in study. Table 1 summarises the pertinent points from the selected studies. All included figures and tables relevant to the reporting of the study and included appropriately. Of note, there is a mention of another table labelled S2 which is supposed to list the search strategy, which has been omitted from the reviewers copy of the article.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Study was well designed and follows the expected standards for systematic review and meta-analyses. Study aims to assess the effect of weekend admissions on UGIB and the resulting outcome of mortality, which is a poorly understood phenomenon and is not widely reported. Study question framed clearly and subsequent study reporting clearly focuses on addressing the study question. Methodology reported well, in a clearly reproducible manner. However, ‘Table S2’ which supposedly lists the search strategy was not included in the manuscript for reviewer. The standard steps for performing systematic review was followed e.g. searching and screening by 2 different reviewers separately and the involvement of a third reviewer to resolve any disagreement. The major databases were comprehensively searched for without any language restrictions. Articles published in abstract only form or in non-peer review journals were excluded. There was also no mention of searches performed in the ‘grey literature’. However, although limiting the search to only peer reviewed journals from the major databases may restrict the number of studies that can be included, it may partly ensure that only higher quality studies with complete data are included.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data reported in a clear and relevant manner with selected Forest plots of interest included. Study findings were discussed in a fair manner, considering the effect of heterogeneity where relevant. The conclusion is well stated and addresses the study question. Given the small number of studies meeting the inclusion criteria for this systematic review and the specific issues highlighted by the authors e.g. use of non-standardized definition for weekend, use of different primary end-points and reporting of time to endoscopy only in some studies; this study raises more questions than answers. More robust well-designed prospective studies need to conducted in multiple centres worldwide to examine the weekend effect on UGIB admission to provide more conclusive findings. Overall the effort of the authors in conducting and reporting this study is commendable.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Sound methodology and clear reporting of results. Good discussion with explanations for observed results backed by current evidence. Meets the required standard for publishing. Cite this review as
Jayaraman T ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Weekend effect in upper gastrointestinal bleeding: a systematic review and meta-analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4248v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Yoen Young Chuah ·
Oct 2, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Comment 1.Please check grammatical error. For example, line 207 ” admission showed significantly shorted times”
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Comment 2.There were only seven studies shown in figure 5 for the increased in-hospital mortality due to non-variceal bleeding in weekend. And with eight studies recruited in figure 6 showing time to endoscopy during weekday is shorter. Yet, only two studies overlapped in these two figures (Wu, 2014 and Youn, 2012). So, whether longer time to endoscopy (figure 6) may explain the increased in-hospital mortality due to non-variceal bleeding (figure 5) may be a question. Because the initial settings of patients were different. Ideally, It would be better if all the recruited studies are the same in figure 5 and figure 6.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Comment 3.Line 227 to line 228, I don’t think the different definition of weekend from recruited studies will affect the result. As long as there is a mention that lacking of manpower during the day which was defined as weekend. Are there any explanation of the definition of their weekend (for instance, less manpower in the subspecialty during the defined weekend) in the quoted articles? Cite this review as
Chuah YY ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Weekend effect in upper gastrointestinal bleeding: a systematic review and meta-analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4248v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Oct 17, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
I would like to applaud the author for registering their protocol PROSPERO and following the PRISMA guideline. Many systematic reviews suffer from poor reporting and inadequate search methodologies. I was pleasantly surprised to see this systematic review was well reported and there was no major concern regarding the search strategies. a few minor suggestions: 1) When reporting the databases, it is important to report the interface and the coverage for each database [line 25 and 26]. Searching the same database via different interfaces can lead to different results. For example, EMBSE is available via OVID or embase.com. CINHAL is available via EBSCO, OVID, and ProQuest. 2) It is recommended to report the number of articles you retrieved per line of search query. 3) It is also a best practice to report any software you use for screening and/or citation management
Experimental design
label_ed_3
1) In PubMed search, Line#6 and Line #17, there are typos: admission tim to admission time. I hope these were mistakes in reporting and not the actual search strategy. 2) In PubMed search, remove extra line (line #16) from the search. Otherwise, it might be misleading or confusing to the readers. A general comment: Databases are very structured and are meant to be searched by controlled vocabularies or index term. It might be important to use key mesh terms in your search. For example, Time-to-treatment or Time Factors could be very good mesh terms to add to your search. To increase the search sensitivity.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No comment
Comments for the author
No comment Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Weekend effect in upper gastrointestinal bleeding: a systematic review and meta-analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4248v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 11, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
