Review History for The relationships between exercise and affective states: a naturalistic, longitudinal study of recreational runners [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The relationships between exercise and affective states: a naturalistic, longitudinal study of recreational runners To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 27th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 8th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on December 20th, 2017 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 20th, 2017.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Fulvio D'Acquisto
·
Dec 20, 2017
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All the points raised by the reviewers have been satisfactorily addressed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 20, 2017
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Fulvio D'Acquisto
·
Dec 8, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please take on board as many suggestions as possible as these will improve the impact of your study
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript “The relationships between exercise and affective states: A naturalistic, longitudinal study of recreational runners is clear written, with relevant figures and tables, which are of high quality and well labelled and described. The structure conforms to PeerJ standards except the abstract because headings are missing. Nevertheless, there are some issues, which should be improved. My most important issue is with the theoretical background in the section introduction and some missing information about statistical analysis. Introduction:
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The introduction needs more detail (references and theoretical assumptions/backgrounds) and I would restructure it in putting some information in the method section. If you add these backgrounds, you could improve your argumentation and strengthen the relevance of your research question.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
data is robust and conclusion are well stated
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In this section, I listed some comments for each section (if necessary. Introduction: Line 29: These references are very old, try to find current evidence of the association between exercise and affective states. Line 53: Your intention is to analyse possible interactions. You mentioned this issue in line 53, for instance. Here, the argumentation would become stronger if you provide theoretical assumptions about these possible interactions (e.g. dual mode theory). Furthermore, you assume that valence and arousal reduce progressively as time passes. You also should add references for this assumption, for instance: Wichers et al. (2011). A time-lagged momentary assessment study on daily life physical activity and affect. Health Psychology Line 55 (et seq.): You mentioned that the association between exercise and affective states should be assessed in naturalistic studies. There are a lots of studies analysing the association between physical activity and affect in daily life and you should define in more detail your scientific contribution (see for instance the reviews of: Kanning, M., Ebner-Priemer, U., & Schlicht, W. (2013). How to investigate within-subject associations between physical activity and momentary affective states in everyday life: A position statement based on a literature overview. Frontiers in Psychology Movement Science and Sport Psychology; Liao, Y., Shonkoff, E. T., & Dunton, G. (2015). The acute relationships between affect, physical feeling states, and physical activity in daily life: A review of current evidence. Frontiers in Psychology Movement Science and Sport Psychology. Line 67 (et seq.): In my opinion you should explain in more detail the theoretical background of affective states (e.g. circumplex model, Russel, because you measure valence and energetic arousal) Line 70 (et seq.): This detailed information about your study belong in the section “Methods”, not in the section “introduction” Data analysis: Line 153: You should add information about the within- and between person variance (intraclass coefficient) and how you have centred the variables. To support understanding you could add the equations of the models. Results: How many missings do you have in your affect measures. You measured affect four times a day over six weeks (4measures x 42days = 168 measurement points). In average, how many affect measures did you achieve per person? Line 180 (et seq.): It is correct to abbreviate standard deviation with s.d.? Discussion: You should discuss in the limitation section that you assessed physical activity with self-reports. The activity data depends on what the participant enters into the platform. You are not able to control if the entry about time, distance and intensity of the run is correct. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "The relationships between exercise and affective states: a naturalistic, longitudinal study of recreational runners (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4257v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Dana Badau ·
Dec 8, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comment.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Clear specification of inclusion and exclusion criteria (health status, motivations, etc.). Specify the average age of the female and male samples. Clear formulation of the main purpose of the research.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Specify the limits, strengths and perspectives of the research.
Cite this review as
Badau D ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "The relationships between exercise and affective states: a naturalistic, longitudinal study of recreational runners (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4257v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 27, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
