Review History for Development of guidelines for tertiary education institutions to assist them in supporting students with a mental illness: a Delphi consensus study with Australian professionals and consumers [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Development of guidelines for tertiary education institutions to assist them in supporting students with a mental illness: a Delphi consensus study with Australian professionals and consumers To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 13th, 2012 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 8th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on January 30th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 31st, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michael Lynskey
·
Jan 31, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your revision and for addressing the (relatively minor) comments and suggestions from reviewers. These revisions have adequately addressed reviewer concerns and I am happy to accept the manuscript in its current form.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 30, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Lynskey
·
Jan 8, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for this submission. I would like to apologize for the delay in returning reviews and a decision to you. Despite this delay, I do hope you find the attached reviews helpful. In my view, this very well written paper addresses an important - yet relatively under-researched topic. Given the relative lack of research in this area, the application of Delphi consensus methods is both appropriate and informative. In addition to the comments made by reviewers, I did wonder if the authors might consider it useful to provide a (very brief) description of what they see as the 'nest steps', both for research and for practice, in this area.
label_author_1
Judi Kidger ·
Jan 7, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is really clearly written. It includes a useful and appropriate introduction both to the problem (lack of guidelines for supporting students in tertiary education) and the solution - using the DELPHI consensus method. Structure is clear and follows usual practice. The article definitely meets PeerJ standards.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Research question is clearly defined. The methods are mostly explained in enough detail. My only comment about improvement is I would like to know a bit more about the data extraction process, the authors refer to this as a systematic literature review, but give no detail about what information was extracted, how many websites/documents that were initially identified were not used, and how many members of the team chose which data to include in the initial survey that was then seen by the working party.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The tables and figures are very useful in giving a clear view of the DELPHI process. This is also made clear in the summary of items included. There is a useful section in the discussion outlining work that has already been done in how the guidelines might be implemented. One omission that I feel needs to be addressed is the lack of a strengths/limitations section about the process itself. One shortcoming that should definitely be discussed is the very few male consumers who took part - there is evidence that young men may have different attitudes to help seeking and may develop different coping strategies, therefore it seems vital to me that more men would ideally have been involved in the development of guidelines. Did the authors do anything to try and get more young male consumers involved?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This was a very enjoyable paper to read, not least because of its immediate and direct application to practice. Cite this review as
Kidger J ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Development of guidelines for tertiary education institutions to assist them in supporting students with a mental illness: a Delphi consensus study with Australian professionals and consumers (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.43v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Deborah Turnbull ·
Nov 26, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Basic reporting requirements appear to have been met.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The approach is appropriate and good response rates have been obtained. I have some reservations about the extent to which the focus of the paper, consensus guideline development for supporting students with mental illness, is within the scope of the journal (biological and medical sciences). Ethical requirements have been met. The research question is relevant and meaningful but gets lost in the Introduction. While generally sharp and focussed, I could not understand the point of the section on the purpose of disability services and the fact that they concentrate on physical complaints. Often these type of services are provided within the one setting. Why is this argument important to the focus of the paper anyway? It is very difficult for the reader to discern, the source and approach for the consumer respondents, other than that they were collected from consumer groups.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The validity of the findings and the conclusions get lost somewhat. There is an inordinate amount of discussion about where the two groups disagreed and the final results are only presented as a supplementary file. While the title promises the presentation of guidelines, the findings are presented more as thematic areas. Thus, it is difficult to ascertain the general format and final content of the guidelines at a glance.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I would suggest a general sharpening of the paper and a summary of the final guidelines presented as a table so that they can be accessed at a quick glance. Hopefully this will enhance consideration by practitioners. Cite this review as
Turnbull D ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Development of guidelines for tertiary education institutions to assist them in supporting students with a mental illness: a Delphi consensus study with Australian professionals and consumers (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.43v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 13, 2012 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
