Review History for Molecular systematics of the subfamily Limenitidinae (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Molecular systematics of the subfamily Limenitidinae (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 22nd, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 27th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on January 8th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 11th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michael Wink
·
Jan 11, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Authors Congratulations- your revision is accepted. Greetings Michael Wink Academic editor
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 8, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Wink
·
Dec 27, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors Our reviewers liked your work but suggest some minor changes. Thanks for submitting your ms to our Journal Best regards Michael Wink Academic editor
label_author_1
Martin Wiemers ·
Dec 22, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is an excellent study on the molecular systematics of the subfamily Limenitidinae, which is clearly of top standard, even using a large number of nuclear genes never used before in phylogenetic studies of butterflies. The article is generally written in excellent English, with only a few minor mistakes, which are listed at the bottom. Extensive background information on the taxonomy of the subfamily is provided including comprehensive referencing. The article structure is professional and the tables and figures contain all important information in a readable way. Raw data are shared, but the GenBank accession numbers for new sequences are still missing and need to be added before publication, both in the text (e.g. lines 274-277, 316-320, 383-385) as well as in the supplementary file. Minor language issues: line 21: "was" should read "were" line 68: "Gruppe" means "group" in German and is not necessarily equivalent with a tribe. I suggest to place the group names in quotation marks: ... in three tribes ("Neptis-Gruppe", "Limenitis-Gruppe", and "Euthalia-Gruppe") based on ... line 172: delete the word "and" line 301: delete the word "the" before "Asia" line 387: Change: "Here, the study" to "This study", and change "till date" into "to date" line 388: change "Based on up to 18 genes regions" to "Based on regions of up to 18 genes" line 389: add "clade" after "monophyletic"; change "and comprised" to "which comprises" lines 394-396: revise sentence, e.g.: "At the genus level, our results showed some of the traditionally recognized genera as either polyphyletic (Neptis and Euryphura) or paraphyletic (Pantoporia, Athyma, Parasarpa, Limenitis, Adelpha)." line 397: delete "of the para/polyphyletic nature of the"
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The article contains original research and fills an important knowledge gap. Methods are sound, described with sufficient detail and are of very high standard.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Robustness of results is checked and taken into account for their interpretation. Conclusions are only drawn for significant findings supported by the results.
Cite this review as
Wiemers M ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Molecular systematics of the subfamily Limenitidinae (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4311v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 26, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article appears to be well-written, clearly articulated, and well-presented.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The primary limitation of this study is the patchiness of the available data for each species. However, given the taxonomic breadth of the species sampled, and the heavy and necessary reliance upon previously published molecular data, this is unavoidable. Overall, the authors have done an excellent job tackling an unusually difficult taxonomic quandary.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Suggestions for improvement. #1) Include a verbal discussion of missing data in the methods and results section. #2) Include a supplemental tree figure that includes only core taxa for which data is available for all gene regions. Such a tree, if possible, would strengthen the confidence that the topological uncertain (especially among the Limenitidini) arises as a consequence of rapid divergence among these genera vs. a lack of phylogenetic resolution due to missing data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This phylogenetic investigation of the subfamily Limenitidinae is long overdue. The authors did an excellent job of describing both the previous history of taxonomic confusion related to this group but also placing their new results in a clear and well argued framework. Although additional work will need to be done in the future to fully resolve the generic relationships among the Limenitidini, the current study represent a vast improvement of our understanding of the phylogenetic history of this diverse and complex butterfly lineage. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Molecular systematics of the subfamily Limenitidinae (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4311v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 22, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
