Review History for A new Python library to analyse skeleton images confirms malaria parasite remodelling of the red blood cell membrane skeleton [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A new Python library to analyse skeleton images confirms malaria parasite remodelling of the red blood cell membrane skeleton To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 4th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 29th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on January 10th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 11th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marcelo Ferreira
·
Jan 11, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors floowed carefully the reviuewer´s suggestions while revising the manuscript, which now appears to be in good shape for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 10, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marcelo Ferreira
·
Dec 29, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The reviewers considered the paper potentially useful for PeerJ audience, but suggested some changes. A better tutorial describing how to use the program is mandatory.
label_author_1
Daniel Allan ·
Dec 19, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Overall good: readable, very clear, well-structured and appropriately contextualized.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I the the comparison with prior art is well designed and thoroughly explored. I wonder, is Fiji’s Analyze Skeletons plugin the only comparable software?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Looks good.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This paper was a pleasure to read. It's exciting to see another scientific application of Numba (indeed, there aren't very many yet). I appreciate the use of real experimental data and the detail-oriented comparison to existing software. Cite this review as
Allan D ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "A new Python library to analyse skeleton images confirms malaria parasite remodelling of the red blood cell membrane skeleton (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4312v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Joao Marcelo Pereira Alves ·
Dec 22, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Nicely written, objective, and to the point. The software is available and is licensed under a FOSS model, but the authors should also include a tutorial, for users to be able to both test their installation and learn how to use the software. I see that they have included test data, which is great. But it is useless to most users, as I will expand on below.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
PeerJ "considers articles in the Biological Sciences, Environmental Sciences, Medical Sciences, and Health Sciences", and this article, being bioinformatic in nature, makes it. But as the software package is right now, it is more of a mathematical work than something usable by the PeerJ audience. A significant flaw of this work is the complete lack of any documentation whatsoever for the software. There are no instructions on how to install or use it. No tutorial on how to use the program or its alleged GUI, no screenshots of it in action. Thus, very few, if any, biologists will use this program as it is right now. I have at least some experience programming in three languages (not Python though) and I have no clue what to do to get Skan up and running. So I didn't, and have to take the authors at their word that the program works. Because I know very little Python. Other biologists typically know even less than I do. Time is limited, people will go use Fiji instead, I am afraid. The authors say Skan is a library, with an extensive API. However, an API is not much use without documentation --don't think many people will go read your code to find out how to access your functions, what they return, etc.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The article itself seems OK to me, although I thought the discussion was a little thin. But, OK, no use in belaboring the point if there is not more to say. What I believe the authors must do in order to avoid this apparently nice piece of software becoming yet another example of "abandonware" littering the scientific softwarescape is to write a point by point tutorial that: 1) Explains to the general biologists, who I believe are the main target user of Skan after all, how to get the program to work; 2) Explains to the general biologists how to use the program (GUI or not), by employing the test data set included (it is advisable to have also included the expected output in a directory, so the users can compare what they got to what was expected). Besides this "general user" guide, in order for the Skan API to be usable by other programmers, there must also be some documentation on how to use the API (e.g., what should be imported to begin with?) and of each of the available functions. Save the many user a significant amount of time later by spending a bit of time now and they will be very grateful to you. Cite this review as
Pereira Alves JM ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "A new Python library to analyse skeleton images confirms malaria parasite remodelling of the red blood cell membrane skeleton (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4312v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 4, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
