Review History for A bibliometric analysis in gene research of myocardial infarction from 2001 to 2015 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A bibliometric analysis in gene research of myocardial infarction from 2001 to 2015 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 13th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 16th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 19th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 20th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Maria Cristina Albertini
·
Jan 20, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your paper is now ready for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 19, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Maria Cristina Albertini
·
Jan 16, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please follow the reviewer comments to improve the quality of your paper.
label_author_1
Pravesh Kumar Bundhun ·
Dec 3, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Zhou et al aimed to evaluate the Global scientific output of gene research of MI and explore their hotspots and frontiers from 2001 to 2015, using bibliometric methods. This is an interesting paper based on a different concept of research articles. The use of English language is adequate throughout the manuscript. Literature references could still be improved, by mentioning and discussing more works related to this field. Article structure and data are satisfactorily presented. Results and outcomes are relevant.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methods are appropriate. Search strategies have well been illustrated.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data is sound. Conclusion is adequate. However, addition of other relevant points could improve the significance of the conclusion.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Even if the quality of language is adequate, due to some minor language issue, further polishing of language will improve the quality of the paper. Cite this review as
Bundhun PK ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "A bibliometric analysis in gene research of myocardial infarction from 2001 to 2015 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4354v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 4, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall the article is well-written, organized, and includes sufficient content. This review primarily suggests ways in which the authors can improve the writing and thoroughness of the paper but there are no suggested changes for methods or analysis. 1. It is suggested that in the introduction section that a paragraph be added to address other bibliometric studies that have been conducted on MI research or conducted on genetic research. This will provide the rationale for your study and indicate to the reader what this particular analysis is adding to the literature. For example: Bibliometric Analysis of the Top 100 Cited Cardiovascular Articles ;The American Journal of Cardiology ; Volume 115, Issue 7, 1 April 2015, Pages 972-981 Cardiovascular disease research activity in the Middle East: a bibliometric analysis S Al-Kindi, T Al-Juhaishi, F Haddad Disparities in Cardiovascular Research Output and Citations From 52 African Countries: A Time-Trend, Bibliometric Analysis (1999–2008) GS Bloomfield, A Baldridge, A Agarwal Global Cardiovascular Research Output, Citations, and Collaborations: An Ecologic, Time-Trend, Bibliometric Analysis (1999-2008) MD Huffman, A Baldridge, GS Bloomfield… - 2013 - Am Heart Assoc 2. The article has a large number of figures and supplementary material, all of which are useful. However, the figures alone are not very informative. One option would be to see whether the figure can be expanded in order to view which label is near to which network/cluster. The other option is to show one or two figures but the remainder of data switch the figure to the supplement and the table to the paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question is clearly stated and the methods of mapping are highly technical. If you refer to this website: https://sites.google.com/site/citespace101/design-rationale/how-should-i-cite-citespace You can provide more details about the strength of this methodology and include all of the relevant citations.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The major threat to the validity of this study is the search. The authors should add a few sentences to the methods section to explain why they chose to search only in this search engine as oppose to using multiple search engines. The evidence for adequate coverage in the search strategy should be stated. The major weakness of the paper is the discussion and conclusion. The current discussion largely focuses on a more detailed explanation of the results with some repetition. The revised discussion should highlight the findings and compare these findings with the other bibliometric studies (e.g. are they in alignment regarding productivity by region or by institution, by journal etc.?). Also, one unique component of CiteSpace is the analysis of burst keywords. The results of this analysis and particularly the relevance and implication of the identified areas should be discussed. Conclusion should be revised in order to state what exactly is the future direction of research indicated as a result of this study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The remaining items are very minor line 49: "genetic mystery" either explain what you mean by this term or remove it. line 76: "simplily" is a typo but the term can be removed line 96: "more likely"....I think that this statement is not supported by your evidence. Either add evidence/reference or revise it. line 99: change American to North American so that it is clear that you are referring to the continent and not the country. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "A bibliometric analysis in gene research of myocardial infarction from 2001 to 2015 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4354v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Jan 15, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
A well written article reviewing the literature related to myocardial infarction. According to me article is acceptable for publication after corrections are made (Minor revision)
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Bibliyometric analysis (literature analysis) with co-citation analysis
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The validity of the findings was examined by using the documents the authors uploaded in the supplementary materials. The findings are valid.
Comments for the author
Analyzed in detail and given important findings on the subject but the following should be taken into consideration. 1) Authors should write a limitation of the study because the analysis were performed only with publications in the wos index (pubmed scopus et al. are not included). 2) Maps do not look nice and difficult for readers to understand. So this study was carried with the VOSviewer could have been better. Authors should read and cite the following study for corrections; “Ozsoy, Z. & Demir, E. The Evolution of Bariatric Surgery Publications and Global Productivity: A Bibliometric Analysis, OBES SURG (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11695-017-2982-1 ” 3) If descriptive footnotes are added to the figures, readers can understand more easily Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "A bibliometric analysis in gene research of myocardial infarction from 2001 to 2015 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4354v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 13, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
