Review History for Precopulatory behavior and sexual conflict in the desert locust [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Precopulatory behavior and sexual conflict in the desert locust To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 14th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 4th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 10th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on January 16th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 22nd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Ann Hedrick
·
Jan 22, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the revisions. I am now recommending that your manuscript be accepted for publication- congratulations!
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 16, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Ann Hedrick
·
Jan 12, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have only a few minor suggestions, which I have entered on the manuscript (PDF version appended). Please approve those and resubmit your manuscript (PeerJ staff will send you the original Word doc).
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 10, 2018
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ann Hedrick
·
Jan 4, 2018
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please revise your manuscript according to the reviewers' suggestions.
label_author_1
Koutaro Maeno ·
Dec 3, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Clear and unambiguous, professional English used throughout..
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Original primary research within Aims and Scope of the journal.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled. Conclusion are well stated, linked to original research question & limited to supporting results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Although the Desert locust is serious pest, their sexual behaviors have not been extensively examined. The present study provided fundamental information of sexual behaviors by generating ethogram based on detailed observation and showed sexual conflict. Experiments were systematically conducted and all figures, tables and illustrations were clear. Especially, they have clearly demonstrated “mating partner choice” in females by modifying female behavior with simple experimental technique. They also revealed how males copulate with females on her back. This manuscript has been well written and appropriately covered most important references. I think this is the first report demonstrating sexual conflict in locusts based on qualitative and quantitative data. The authors categorized various behaviors, so it will help to unify terminology. Publication from open journal such as PeerJ is highly valuable for scientists. I believe this manuscript will be cited by many researchers. This manuscript has been already acceptable. I will give a few minor comments. Comment 1 L225 insert “hind” before leg Comment 2 L375 & Fig. 6 The authors concluded that female sexual behavior was not clear. I agreed with this conclusion, but I am interested in how negative female’s behaviors (walking away or jumping away) influenced on the rate of kicking behaviors when males tried to mount on her. The authors observed courtship behavior of a couple within a container for 3 h, so some males might try to mount on evading females which jumped or walked away from the male. According to my experience, some gregarious females tended to accept male’s mating trial without rejecting behaviors when gregarious females approached to males and physically contacted with males by their antennae (less than 20 %). I guess females which displayed negative behavior at S3 (walking away or jumping away) tended to reject male’s mating trial. It is interesting to compare the rate of rejection between females displayed negative S3 and positive S3. Comment 3 Tables The authors used “”pre-mounting”, but they used “pre mounting” (without “-”) in table Comment 4 L89 & L441 Please insert “Ould” before Ely. I am looking forward to seeing future publications comparing solitarious and gregarious locusts by using this publication. Cite this review as
Maeno KO ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Precopulatory behavior and sexual conflict in the desert locust (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4356v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 29, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I suggest to make some small improvements: - To note somewhere taxonomic position of the species (family, subfamily) and its author(s) line 42 - to add Orthoptera, Acrididae line 60 analyses-the > analyses -- the line 86 Acridids > acridids line 131 my guess is that electrical power of lamps per se (25W) is not very important, data concerning illuminations are essential! line 213 Figure 1 denote > Figure 1 denotes line 218 antenna > antennae line 234 an antagonistic nature > antagonistic nature line 238 a Markov process > the Markov process line 378 comprisedpalp > comprised palp line 382 intermitetenthigh > intermittent high
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comments
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Precopulatory behavior and sexual conflict in the desert locust (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4356v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 14, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
