Review History for Frequency and developmental timing of linear enamel hypoplasia defects in Early Archaic Texan hunter-gatherers [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Frequency and developmental timing of linear enamel hypoplasia defects in Early Archaic Texan hunter-gatherers To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 7th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 16th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 23rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 24th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Theodore Eliades
·
Jan 24, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I think that the vast majority of the issues raised have been efficiently addresses
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 23, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Theodore Eliades
·
Jan 16, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The authors are invited to address the issues raised, particularly in the review from the 1st reviewer, and resubmit.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 17, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
- The paper is well written and in this context it do not need any changes. - The literature is correctly selected, although you can delete the oldest quotes (e.g., Sarnat 1941, 1942). - The structure of manuscript is very confused.In paragraph "Methods" the authors write about materials. It is not known why they gave an additional sub-section "Study population" (line 72). In the subsection "materials" they described using methods (line 103). -some tables are illegible (e table 2) - a column with a number of teeth was introduced, but it is not clear why there are so many rows.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
-The aim of the study was not clear stated. -The teeth with strong wear were excluded (line 115).But there are not any information about the method for estimate the stages of dental wear. -There is no information about the age of individuals. But in the discussion the age category ("juvenis") was introduced (line 170). - The authors mention about deciduous teeth, but the Dean and Reid method applies only to permanent teeth ( line 144, 149). So it does not really make sense to write about decidous teeth in this context. - In the paragraph "results" the authors compare the Bucheye Knoll population with the other groups (line 160). This is a mistake, because such a comparison should be transferred to the discussion. - The authors mention about the weaning stress in the context of LEH. However, we know that the weaning stress must be assess according to isotopic studies (nitrogen), and LEH can be used only as a indirectly be used for this purpose. - In literature (line 280) Larson - it should be Larsen. - In literature (line 328) Wood - it is not found in the text.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The material used for the study is very interesting.But the results are quite poorly presented in this paper. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Frequency and developmental timing of linear enamel hypoplasia defects in Early Archaic Texan hunter-gatherers (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4367v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Ana Ivaniševic ·
Jan 15, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I suggest the authors start the Introduction with hypoplasia (lines 44-58), then give the information on the population studied (lines 32-40) and conclude with the third subsection (59-70). The aims and purpose are clearly stated in the sentence (lines 41-43) ''Here, we infer nonspecific nutritional and developmental stresses via the developmental timing and frequency of linear enamel hypoplasia defects (LEH) in the canines using photogrammetric methods.'', and it would be better if the Introduction finished with it.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The conclusions are connected to the original question investigated, which should be more cleary stated in the Introduction section, as suggested above.
Cite this review as
Ivaniševic A ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Frequency and developmental timing of linear enamel hypoplasia defects in Early Archaic Texan hunter-gatherers (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4367v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 7, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
