Review History for Ten years of progress and promise of induced pluripotent stem cells: historical origins, characteristics, mechanisms, limitations, and potential applications [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Ten years of progress and promise of induced pluripotent stem cells: historical origins, characteristics, mechanisms, limitations, and potential applications To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 25th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 6th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on January 19th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 24th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Anne Fernandez
·
Jan 24, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Although a high number of small points needed to be addressed thus qualifying the revision required as major, this revised manuscript has been carefully corrected throughout and the suggestions by both reviewers adequately answered. Therefore the manuscript is now acceptable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 19, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Anne Fernandez
·
Dec 6, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The review covers a broad and growing amount of publications including survey of recent reviews. It needs to be improved with a high number of minor revisions and grammatical corrections that reviewer 1 has listed in the attached PDF. The figures and tables adapted from previous published reviews are adequately quoting the original sources. As some of these reviews are not accessible under open access (in particular reference 117 noted by reviewer 2), the adapted figures proposed here provide a useful synthesis for an easy reading and thus should be kept as well as the tables, but reference 82 (line 1011) must be corrected for their authors: "Brouwer M, Zhou H, and Nadif Kasri N." (and not " ... and Kasri, N.N."). A careful implementation of all corrections and clarifications listed by both reviewers is necessary and will improve the readability of this review.
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 23, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript reviews the advances in the field of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) during the 11 years since iPSC were first described. Overall the review is detailed with appropriate citations, over 200, and the organization into different sections is well thought out. Considering the growth of research in this field, it is difficult to maintain this type of review up to date although the authors have done well. Keeping in mind that several other similar reviews on the subject have been published, this work represents a considerable body of knowledge useful both to newcomers to the field and for experienced authors. Unfortunately, the manuscript contains a significant number of grammatical errors throughout the text, particularly concerning pluralities and tense. For the authors help, I have included a list of potential corrections and suggestions for several phrases where the meaning was unclear.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The manuscript is clearly in the scope of PeerJ, with well-outlined objectives. Even though the field is expanding continually, the analysis performed by the authors is overall of appropriate depth, detail and rigorous. Major point: While through most of the manuscript, the authors provide a well detailed description of the many of the advances in the field, page 6 line 167, the manuscript would be strengthened by including a deeper description of the methods enabling development of fully reprogrammed iPSC.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In the concluding sections, the authors provide a very appropriate assessment of the future potential of iPSC and the barriers we face before effective clinical deployment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Clearly, the manuscript was written last year, 2016, which may account for many of the problems with tense. Minor points: Pg:8 line 241 The full names of DOT1L MBD3 etc. need to be provided. Pg:12, line 344, “highly immunogenic.” needs a reference. There are 9 possible loops in the Oct4/Sox2/Nanog transcription machinery, so while I believe the term auto regulatory loop can be used to describe this circuitry overall, in the detailed description of this mechanism, it would be more appropriate to refer to loops. Pg: 14-16 the authors make use of both the terms iPSCs and PSCs and it is not clear if the latter is being used to describe pluripotent stem cells as a whole. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Ten years of progress and promise of induced pluripotent stem cells: historical origins, characteristics, mechanisms, limitations, and potential applications (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4370v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 5, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Please see General comments below
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Please see General comments below
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Please see General comments below
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a very broad review of various aspects of iPSCs. It adequately covers many of the major issues relating to this technology, but because of its broad scope, lacks synthesis and critical evaluation of some of the cited work. The figures and tables are mostly adapted from previously published reviews and do not incorporate more recent work. I would recommend major revisions be carried out before the mansucripts publication. Please see below for specific comments on the manuscript. Line 136 : "The search started in year 2000 leading to a list of 24 candidate reprogramming factors" - This statement refers to the paper published in Cell in 2006 not 2000. Lin 289 : "self-deleting peptide" - more common usage for this would be "self-cleaving peptide" Instead of separating each delivery methodology to its own paragraph they should be grouped under two major headings (integrating vs nonintegrating) Secondary IPSC systems (knock-in mouse models of Trx Factors) are not considered adequately - especially when disccussing the factors that limit the efficiency of reprogramming (Section 5.8). Section 5.6 seems to dwell on the same topic as 5.1 and could be merged to make the text clearer The authors use "we" in several places in the text (eg. Line 688). Since the work they cite is not theirs per se, it would be more appropriate to use "one" or the passive voice. Section on the details of Cas9 (line727-743) seems out of place in the context of this iPSC review. Why is "microrna switch" on line 772 italicized? Line 787- Should read as "believe" Many of the figures are "adapted" from reference 117 - The authors have not really added onto these, so I wonder if they are really necessary. One can also read teh origival review Simple adapting a table (Table 2 and 4) from an older review is not acceptable in my opinion. More recent information has to be added on these tables. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Ten years of progress and promise of induced pluripotent stem cells: historical origins, characteristics, mechanisms, limitations, and potential applications (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4370v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 25, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
