Review History for Smartphone-based reminder system to promote pelvic floor muscle training for the management of postnatal urinary incontinence: historical control study with propensity score-matched analysis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Smartphone-based reminder system to promote pelvic floor muscle training for the management of postnatal urinary incontinence: historical control study with propensity score-matched analysis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 22nd, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 11th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 18th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 25th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Gregory Gilbert
·
Jan 25, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you very much for addressing the reviewers' comments. I am pleased to tell you your manuscript has been accepted for publication with PeerJ.
label_author_1
Lisa Buckley ·
Jan 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Line 91, I think the parenthesis within the parenthesis should be brackets.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This version of your manuscript is more clear and concise. Thank you for the opportunity to review your work. Cite this review as
Buckley L ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Smartphone-based reminder system to promote pelvic floor muscle training for the management of postnatal urinary incontinence: historical control study with propensity score-matched analysis (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4372v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 18, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Gregory Gilbert
·
Jan 11, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address all the reviewer comments in a rebuttal letter indicating each comment and how you addressed it.Thank you.
label_author_2
Lisa Buckley ·
Jan 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
a.Line 16 the reference is listed as 1, and the rest of the paper is using author last names. b.Clear/English i.Line 43, I think you're trying to compare postpartum women to postmenopausal women? It may be more clear to state the group you are comparing them with. After all, postpartum women are non-pregnant women. ii.Line 86, I suggest "All data" instead of "All the data" iii.Line 113, Should it say "this data is not published"? iv.Line 118/119, I think you could say "The participant who agree to participate answered a similar initial questionnaire to the experimental group for background characteristics and current UI status." v.Line 185, the "two and 16" is confusing. Are these the participant numbers? If so, it isn't necessary and you could just state that two participants were excluded and the reason. c.References/sufficient background and context-Yes d.Raw data shared-Yes, I am able to open and view this file.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
a.Original-Yes b.Aime and scope-The focused aim for this study is a strength. c.Question well defined and meaningful-Yes, I believe it is interesting and meaningful research. d.Identified knowledge gap-There is a clear gap between the knowledge and the action of the women with UI. This study looks at this gap. e.Method described in detail-Yes, I believe this study could be replicated based on the description in the article.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Impact of this study was assessed. I believe this study could be replicated based on the description in the article. Conclusion is well stated and linked to the original research question.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
a.In line 114, I think it would be nice to either have the same exclusion criteria or list the exclusion criteria for the control group so the reader knows there wasn't bias toward one group over the other. Cite this review as
Buckley L ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Smartphone-based reminder system to promote pelvic floor muscle training for the management of postnatal urinary incontinence: historical control study with propensity score-matched analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4372v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 7, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Thank you for the opportunity to review this article. The article provides sound findings regarding the effectiveness of the smartphone-based reminder system to enhance PFMT adherence and to manage UI in postpartum women. However, there are some issues that need improvement. These issues are outlined below: Major Revision I wonder about the withdrawal. You describe that the smartphone-based reminder system excel as a simple free way to assist postpartum women in performing PFMT in their free time. But sixteen women in the smartphone group did not record their current UI status after 8 weeks. It is 32.7% of enrollments. Why did not you discuss this point. Minor Revisions 1.Line 16 loss of urine.”1) In a population    Please delete 1). 2.Line 56-58 I could not understand this sentence. Why do you put a parentheses. 3.Line 79 Is ICI a mistake of ICS? 4.Line 101 Who is a midwife? Does the midwife belong to the clinic? 5.Figure 2 Historical control group and Smartphone group are assigned from a beginning in this research. I think that you should show a group name the upper part of the figure. 6.Figure 2, Follow-Up section In the Historical control group, A parenthesis is not written.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Please provide more information about the exclusion criteria in the control group in the Materials & Methods section. You describe that it is similar to those in the smartphone group. It isn’t same. Please explain what is different.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
no comment
Comments for the author
no comment Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Smartphone-based reminder system to promote pelvic floor muscle training for the management of postnatal urinary incontinence: historical control study with propensity score-matched analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4372v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 22, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
