Review History for Calibration adjustments to address bias in mortality analyses due to informative sampling—a census-linked survey analysis in Switzerland [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Calibration adjustments to address bias in mortality analyses due to informative sampling—a census-linked survey analysis in Switzerland To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 6th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 29th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on January 24th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 26th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Francis Boscoe
·
Jan 26, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You have adequately addressed each of the reviewers' comments and the paper is improved as a result.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 24, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Francis Boscoe
·
Nov 29, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I second the reviewers' comments that minor English editing is needed in places, and that it would be useful to know more about what other countries have adopted or are considering adopting this approach (the reviewers and editor are from the U.S. and Canada). Thank you for submitting your work to PeerJ.
label_author_1
Paulo Pinheiro ·
Nov 18, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Clear and unambiguous english is used for the most part making the manuscript comprehensible. Some editorial revisions including the suggestions to the author below would improve clarity.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors effectively demonstrate how a survey-based census system without consideration for differential non-response, such as that adopted in Switzerland, will impact the validity of survival and/or mortality analyses. They do so by comparing mortality rates and life expectancy derived from survey weights with those derived from inverse probability weights using survival data from the country’s Vital Stats Registry and taking into consideration survey non-response data. The analysis is adequate and understandable, with appropriate tables and figures, provided table 1 is modified. The findings and conclusions are accurate and of importance.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
While the overall findings are valid and important and the conclusion is well stated, the general context of this research question is not discussed especially the practical implications of these findings (IMPACT). Moreover the baseline data of STATPOP could be better described. For the rest, the data seems robust , statistically sound and controlled.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I read the manuscript by Moser et al. with great interest. The authors effectively demonstrate how a survey-based census system without consideration for differential non-response, such as that adopted in Switzerland, will impact the validity of survival and/or mortality analyses. They do so by comparing mortality rates and life expectancy derived from survey weights with those derived from inverse probability weights using survival data from the country’s Vital Stats Registry and taking into consideration survey non-response data. The analysis is adequate and understandable, with clear, appropriate tables and figures. The findings and conclusions are accurate and of importance. Some concerns are as follows: Major concerns: •While the manuscript shows that estimates based on survey weights will be underestimated (MR) and overestimated (LE), it falls short of explaining the impact or significance of this concern. For population-based studies on vital statistics, one could always fall back on the STATPOP file; thus, it is important for the authors to convey what the consequences of this difference in estimates might be in practice, ideally providing concrete examples. •It would be advantageous to provide the regional European context. Is this a local problem, or are other countries reverting to the same census plans? •Survival Concerns: Please discuss the completeness of mortality records for linkage with STATPOP. Regarding the mortality records of non-Swiss populations (roughly 20% according to Table 1), what is the “lost to follow-up” rate? How is vital status ascertained? (death certificate alone? Regular collection of “state income or pension” anywhere in the world? Etc.) What about people moving to warmer geographies or to their countries of origin and dying there (some with the authors’ exact characteristic of interest - poor health status)? How would these aspects affect the survival used for the IP weights? Furthermore, due to the overlap with poor health status, how would it affect the estimates of the current study? At minimum, these concerns could be addressed in the limitations section. •Non-Swiss populations have significantly lower odds of response to the survey, but the effect of that was not discussed. Please also clarify if cross-border workers to cities like Geneva and Basel are included in STATPOP –as part of the Swiss population - and/or the survey? Minor suggestions: •The word “informative” may come across as positive to the less informed reader. The text should be modified so that “informative” is clearly portrayed as an unwanted characteristic. •Please check the order of the Figures. Currently starts at 3. •Lines 129-131: Is the survival time individually updated as per some sort of contact with the subject or is survival time measured throughout the full period presuming the subject is alive in the absence of a death record? •Line 144: Does the OR=4 come from Pizzi et al. as well? If not, please substantiate your choice. •Line 149: The sentence “The overall percentage of deaths was set to 10% and 25%” needs to be clarified with information regarding which group or data subset is involved. •Lines 262-263: This sentence is best suited for the Introduction. •Lines 303-305: This statement is an overreach and possibly wishful thinking. Readers will understand that resource shortages are driving countries towards novel approaches to counting their populations. Yet, as researchers, we know that there is no real substitute for a Full Enumeration Census (albeit also imperfect). To suggest that surveys and statistical estimates could ever replace an actual total count is bold at the least, and surely contentious, unless Switzerland is unique and there is a total absence of undocumented persons, the “lost-to-follow-up” rate is zero, and the borders are fully controlled. I would strongly consider modifying this segment of text. Minor language/word choice concerns: While the manuscript is comprehensible, some editorial revisions including the following would improve clarity. 1-The use of the word “register” is awkward 2-The use of the word “consistent” -it often seems like the authors actually mean accurate or valid 3- “Despite” is not used correctly; sentences using it should be modified. 4- The use of future tense in some sentences is odd/unusual. 5- Other awkward phrases: <U+F0A7>true underlying population estimates (need a better word for “true”) <U+F0A7>they address for the sampling <U+F0A7>because of privacy preservation <U+F0A7>a bad health status <U+F0A7>studies including Switzerland <U+F0A7>state-of-the-art nowadays <U+F0A7>provided almost In addition, table 1 is confusing and should be modified, possibly with horizontal lines. Cite this review as
Pinheiro P ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Calibration adjustments to address bias in mortality analyses due to informative sampling—a census-linked survey analysis in Switzerland (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4376v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 28, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
1.Throughout the article, the switch from a full census to a survey-based micro-census is provided as justification for the work. Presumably, however, full censuses also have non-response and the same conclusions could apply (i.e. inverse probability weights would still improve the longitudinal validity, despite their not being a sampling probability). Please clarify the generalizability of your findings, and if they are generalizable beyond this micro-census scenario, perhaps use a different motivation to justify your study. 2.Abstract: Define a registry-based census. Be consistent with calling it either a registry-based or register-based census. 3.Line 35: Describe who the 6.5 million individuals are (i.e., all persons included in the registry-based census) 4.Line 37: Clarify “aimed to be sampled”. Presumably 3.5% were sampled, but not all responded? Perhaps remove “aimed to” 5.Line 74: “the statistical analyses” is vague – what statistical analyses? 6.Lines 80/81: This sentence is very general and therefore confusing. I would differentiate between what your aim was (specific, mortality rates) and its implication (potentially broader, any time to event data) 7.Line 94: Remove “will” 8.Lines 111, 121: English language editing needed. 9.Line 136: Figures should be numbered in the order they appear in the text 10.Lines 140, 242, Figure 3: Replace “a bad health” with “poor health status” throughout. 11.Line 185, Table 1: I may be ignorant given that this is not my area of expertise, but are the mean CS and IP weights informative to the reader? I am not sure how to interpret these in Table 1 and wonder whether there is use in them being there? 12.Figure 2: Suggest making the x-axis categorical with the different methods across the x-axis. Could also consolidate to one graph.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1.The simulation study seems like a bit of an afterthought, both in the presentation and the interpretation of the results. I suggest either fully justifying the usefulness and implications of the simulation study, or leaving it out altogether.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall, I think this is a well-executed and thorough study that is well described and has valid findings. Some English language editing is needed and some further clarification of the generalizability and implications of the results would improve the paper, but on the whole it seems to be a quality piece of work worthy of publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Calibration adjustments to address bias in mortality analyses due to informative sampling—a census-linked survey analysis in Switzerland (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4376v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 6, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
