Review History for Codominant grasses differ in gene expression under experimental climate extremes in native tallgrass prairie [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Codominant grasses differ in gene expression under experimental climate extremes in native tallgrass prairie To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 6th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 17th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 23rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 30th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Melanie Zeppel
·
Jan 30, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Ava, Congratulations on your acceptance. May I encourage you to publish more of your excellent work and keep going with your research.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 23, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Melanie Zeppel
·
Jan 17, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Ava, Thank you for the submission of the paper on gene expression during climate extremes. The work is both interesting and very valuable. The reviewers have suggested a number of revisions. If you decide to address the changes, please note the figure 2 font sizes and captions, please make these consistent. With kind regards, Melanie Zeppel
label_author_1
Lauren Dennhardt ·
Dec 17, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article was for the most part easy to understand. There are a few items that could be clarified in order to be more understandable to a broader audience.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
As the authors acknowledge, the sample size was a low and microarrays are not as detailed as an RNA seq study, but the study is important and provides an important narrative toward understanding how species may respond to climate change. I have never used microarrays, so I will defer to another reviewer on those statistics.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Great article! We're starting an RNA-seq assisted migration study on cool-season grasses in North Dakota, so your article was of particular interest to me. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Dennhardt L ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Codominant grasses differ in gene expression under experimental climate extremes in native tallgrass prairie (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4394v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Cecilia Blomstedt ·
Jan 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
It is well written, clearly stating the results and the implications for this field of research. Meets all the guidelines of PeerJ wrt references etc.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Good
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Good
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Review of PeerJ manuscript; Codominant grasses differ in gene expression under experimental climate extremes in native tallgrass prairie. Ava M Hoffman, Meghan L Avolio, Alan K Knapp, Melinda D Smith This is a small but worthwhile analysis of the differences in gene expression between two grass species grown under environmental stress. It is well written, clearly stating the results and the implications for this field of research. I recommend acceptance and publication of this manuscript. However, I do have a number of minor comments that should be addressed. •Line 37 – Cite IPCC 2013 but there are no details in the reference list under IPCC. So add Stocker et al 2013 to the text or put the details under IPCC •Following sentence is incomplete - improving our understanding of what and there is no full stop. 52"However, most molecular studies of plant responses to drought and heat stress are focused on 53 model organisms with limited ecological relevance (Leakey et al. 2009), although awareness and 54 sequencing costs are improving our understanding (Voesenek et al. 2014; Ellegren 2014) " •In the site description (line 99) the plot sizes are given as 3 x 6m but in the legend to Online resources Supplementary methods line 3 it states 2 x 6 m; •line 276 – 'both histone acetyltransferases were upregulated" implies only two exist in the species. Add that the two histone acetyltransferases identified as differentially expressed in A.gerardii were upregulated. I do have two comments that could be taken into account for future studies; 1. The study is limited in that only two individuals were sampled for each species under each of the treatments but I agree with the authors arguments that this is sufficient for this preliminary study. 2. Hybridisation of cDNA synthesised from leaf RNA against maize ear tissue may have limited the type of genes identified. However, I also recognise that there is a limit to the resources available for a study such as this and despite the above reservations I think these results add to the information available in this area of research. Cite this review as
Blomstedt C ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Codominant grasses differ in gene expression under experimental climate extremes in native tallgrass prairie (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4394v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 6, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
