Review History for Tobacco rattle virus-induced PHYTOENE DESATURASE (PDS) and Mg-chelatase H subunit (ChlH) gene silencing in Solanum pseudocapsicum L. [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Tobacco rattle virus-induced PHYTOENE DESATURASE ( PDS) and Mg-chelatase H subunit ( ChlH ) gene silencing in Solanum pseudocapsicum L. To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 6th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 6th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on January 30th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 8th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Savithramma Dinesh-Kumar
·
Feb 8, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised manuscript addressed most of the comments raised by the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 30, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Savithramma Dinesh-Kumar
·
Nov 6, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As suggested by both the reviewers, the writing needs to be improved. The silencing efficiency of 25% is not optimal for a general use of VIGS in this plant sp and hence it is better to try different Agro strains, temperature, and inoculation conditions to optimize silencing method to increase the efficiency. As pointed out by the Reviewer #2, authors should use at least additional genes to show that the TRV-based silencing generally works in this plant species not just PDS.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 22, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript needs through English language editing.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
•Text at many places are ambiguous e.g., L90-92, L133-34 also check overall for the grammatical errors. •Proper terminology should be used e.g., L88, steam sterilized should be replaced with autoclaved. •Age of the plant should also be mentioned in L90 •Sampling at L94 is not clear. Five different plants and three biological replicates? •L97- what tissue was used? •Name of the supplier is needed in L99 •Homology-based cloning section can be expanded with the mention of closely related species used and gene IDs used for the cloning. Mention if degenerate primers were used. Also, mention the template used for PCR and number of cycles. •Some of the headings are not conclusive e.g. L130 •L131, where was PDS inserted? •L131-137 needs improvement for better clarity •Reference is needed in L110, L143 •Mention of kit or method is needed in L112
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
•Overall clarity in writing is needed e.g., L162-64. Some of the headings need improvement for the better conclusion e.g., L161, L220. Check for the capital and small letter placement •Mention the name of the species used for homology in L162 •I don’t find any figure for 3’RACE result
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Abstract Information is sufficient but improvement in writing/language is needed for better clarity and readability. Introduction Information and citations look conclusive but writing requires improvement for better understanding e.g., line 17. Figures Figure 1: legend can be expanded with details of methods used and with details of the template used and a number of cycles. Figure 2- details are needed for each figure like if A) is RT-PCR and B) is qRT-PCR. Needs better sentence framing for the clarity. Mention number of replicates for RT-qPCR Figure 3- expand the legend with tissue sample used for the experiment and number of replicates used Figure 4- expand the legend with details of input values and number of replicates Figure 5- what is 1,1 and 2,2 in the figure? Expand the legend Figure 6- check for the spelling mistakes in legend. Legend is confusing, what is the difference in C and D figures. Expand the legends with the methodology details Figure 7 can be merged with figure 8 Figure 8- labels on figure do not match with the legend for 8A. also mention the age of tissue used and a number of replicates for qRT-PCR. Other points that need attention •How was the consistency of silencing in plant lifespan? •Was silencing in other tissue parts of the plant found? •Did silencing inherit to the next generation? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Tobacco rattle virus-induced PHYTOENE DESATURASE (PDS) and Mg-chelatase H subunit (ChlH) gene silencing in Solanum pseudocapsicum L. (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4424v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 2, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
English writing should be improved. L45, L47 the two viruses name should be italic. L61 A should be a. L63 RT-qPCR. L76 A blank before Thus. L80 correct provide to provided. L83-L84 delete the last sentence. L121 delete five. L132 -133 Eco should be italic. L137 DH5a should not be italic. L143 need reference. Plant materials only cover the plant used in study. L90-95 should be introduced in each part of materials and methods. L108 sequences of these genes should be attached. L110 Primers should be as supplementary data. L169 GenBank accession numbers should be given for these cloned genes. L175-184 should be merged into next section. L182 delete the first the. L261 The silencing rate is not clear. The authors should clear ow many plants were inoculated, how many plants were infected, and how many plants showed silencing phentotype.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The main purpose of this work is to report TRV could be used as VIGS vector in Solanum pseudocapsicum. However, the authors put much words on reference genes selection for RT-qPCR, though it is important for this plant. I suggest the authors to have more work to optimize the inoculation methods to improve silencing efficience, and try to silence one more gene for solid data.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I could not understand "The silencing rate was 26%". The silencing efficience should be shown in the result.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Tobacco rattle virus-induced PHYTOENE DESATURASE (PDS) and Mg-chelatase H subunit (ChlH) gene silencing in Solanum pseudocapsicum L. (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4424v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 6, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
