Review History for Regenerative agriculture: merging farming and natural resource conservation profitably [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Regenerative agriculture: merging farming and natural resource conservation profitably To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 12th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 31st, 2018. The first revision was submitted on February 8th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 9th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Sheila Colla
·
Feb 9, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for incorporating the suggested revisions.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 8, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Sheila Colla
·
Jan 31, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please see the comments below from the two reviewers. Please incorporate them or address them. I look forward to receiving the revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 15, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript is clearly written with simple appropriate language. The references are adequate throughout and the figures, raw data and structure are all reasonable. I would not that in figure 2 there is no description for those data represented by the white bars
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This research is field based and down from various sources on a farm level. Given the nature of the data used, there is an inherent limit to what how much actual experimental design and manipulation is possible. Within those confines, the authors did a commendable job of gathering their data. The methods for collecting insects etc. are quite sound and the ability to locate 20 farms and gain the relevant information from each makes for quite reasonable sample sizes.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings of this study are quite sound and reasonable given the data and analyses. The conclusions are sound and within the scope of those data collected. There is some reasonable speculation, and while this study is limited in its ability to provide mechanism, the speculation is aimed at these mechanisms which is appropriate.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Regenerative agriculture: merging farming and natural resource conservation profitably (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4428v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Ralph Martin ·
Jan 31, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Acceptable
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The paired design is implied in Table S1 but not clear in the Methods. Please clarify statistical design. See comments on the manuscript (attached). L 74 - how were fields selected on each farm? Why were 2 omitted? L 81 - how were the sites elected for yield determination? L 83 - how was revenue for livestock grazing determined? L 86 - Presumably numbers of indiv from all spp are mentioned. Clarify. How many of each sp? Did 1 sp do more damage than another? Was crop damage due to pests assessed? L 116-17 - how was the value of other products assessed? L 118 - Extra cost only for seed or also for direct applications of insecticide? L 123 - how many regen farmers received an organic premium? Show in T S1
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
T S2 - more explanation needed in order for table to stand alone. Stats related to T S2? Not referred to in text Fig 2 - see comment bubbles on Fig 2. It's not clear to me what this shows. It appears that some costs are missing.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This type of systems analysis is required and appreciated. Please address comments above in order to help readers understand how data were collected and analyzed. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Martin R ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Regenerative agriculture: merging farming and natural resource conservation profitably (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4428v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 12, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
