Review History for Reliability and concurrent validity of the iPhone® Compass application to measure thoracic rotation range of motion (ROM) in healthy participants [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Reliability and concurrent validity of the iPhone ® Compass application to measure thoracic rotation range of motion (ROM) in healthy participants To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 6th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 15th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on February 7th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 9th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Scotty Butcher
·
Feb 9, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your attention to detail and your comprehensive responses to the comments provided by the reviewers and I. Congratulations on a great paper!
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 7, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Scotty Butcher
·
Dec 15, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for your submission of a well written, organized, and thoroughly analysed manuscript. Two reviewers have presented some key comments and suggestions about which you should address in detail. In particular, be sure to include an xlsx or csv version of your raw data for those who don't use SPSS. Also, please address carefully the comments by reviewer 1 on concurrent validity. I will also add that there is a discrepancy between the results and the discussions presented in the manuscript and the abstract in regards to concurrent validity. You've stated that the high correlation between the two tools indicates good concurrent validity (abstract), but then state the Bland-Altman LOA/bias is questionable and deemed unacceptable clinically (of which I agree). I do think this puts your conclusion of good concurrent validity in question. Please comment and/or address in your resubmission. Sincerely, Scotty
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 31, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comment.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall, the manuscript meets all three of the standards for publication with PeerJ, with only a few minor modifications recommended: 1.The concurrent validity portion of the experiment would be strengthened if the authors could provide evidence for the validity of the UG for measuring thoracic rotation. Each of the references provided in the introduction and methods referred specifically to the reliability of the UG. Is there some gold standard to which the UG has been compared previously for measuring thoracic rotation? Or, perhaps the UG is the current gold standard? Without this type of reference it is difficult to interpret the relationship between the two measurement techniques (comparing iPhone app with another technique that itself has not been validated). However, this may not be possible if no previous data exists. If this is the case, the authors should mention this in their discussion. 2.In table 2 it appears that SEM was greater for rotations to the right side vs left side for 3 of the 4 combinations of rater/measurement technique. Can the authors explore whether there are differences in reliability to one side vs the other for any of these combinations, and if so, briefly discuss why this might be the case. It appears that Rater #1 may have been more consistent toward one side. However, when measures from both observers are combined it appears that these differences are much smaller (table 3). 3.The authors could briefly discuss the unique challenges with using the iPhone over an analogue device like the UG. For example: 1) measurements with an iPhone could be subject to RF noise, 2) an iPhone may not be usable in certain locations (if GPS is required but connection not possible in certain buildings), and 3) one cannot calibrate sensors in the iPhone (they are set at the factory and may lose calibration over time) – an older iPhone may therefore be less accurate. Minor corrections: Methods: Line 122: …sessions “were” Line 128: …Compass app (Apple…) “were” utilised. Line 131: Does the app also make use of the phone’s gyroscope? Lines 138-143: Can the authors define thoracic rotation from an anatomical perspective for a broader scientific audience? For example, does motion occur exclusively between thoracic vertebrae? Can motion occur between other articulations? Line 196: …reliability “were” determined… Discussion: Lines 267-269: Would the authors therefore speculate that the iPhone app was more accurate? Perhaps this should be stated? This might be a good place to address the validity question of the UG (mentioned above). Line 286: …transverse “plane” joint ROM. Lines 288-293: Can the app be used with other axes of iPhone rotation? Perhaps using different axes of the iPhone may influence accuracy? The authors briefly mention this in lines 339-343. Lines 316-318: Can the authors re-consider their definition for r2 (coefficient of determination)? The classic definition is that it describes the amount of variance in one measure that can be explained by the variance in a second measure. Lines 327-329: Can the authors provide a little more rationale for their decision? Is there a criterion level of difference that would be acceptable in a clinic? Line 333: …measuring “t”horacic rotation… Figures: All: consider including information about number of subjects/number of measures included in each table/figure (i.e. n=?) Figure 3 – Consider increasing the font of r2 data and best-fit line equation, and move the equation to the side so that it doesn’t obscure data points. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Reliability and concurrent validity of the iPhone® Compass application to measure thoracic rotation range of motion (ROM) in healthy participants (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4431v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 30, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This article is written in clear and unambiguous English. The introduction is generally good,but it should not be mentionned an "unpublished review". and all the more that there is one which could suit : https://www.hindawi.com/journals/bmri/2015/328142/ The introduction also does not insist on articles that validate the use of internals Smartphone sensors comparing to godl standard in the clinical pratice. The structure of the article is confomr to acceptable format. Figures and tables are relevant. Raw data are available but only in SPSS format and with no meta-data explanation. Although it is still possible to convert the data and interpret meta-data, it could be more usefull to get raw data in csv format and with a text document which explain meta-data. This submission is well 'self-contained'.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Research question is clearly and well defined. Investigation respect the state of art of such research so technical level is good. Methods are described with sufficient detail and information to replicate, although the writing of certain formulas would make it possible to improve even more this good work. In "instrumentation part", line 128, it would be nice to clearly define which models of inertial units used in these iPhones. In the Compass App measurement, line 189, it is not clear if the participant return actively to starting position without help of examiner. The sentence seems ambiguous and should be reformulated for clarity.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Novelty could be juged insufficient but the limits of the work are very clearly defined and that is very appreciable. So benefit to literature is clearly state. The discussion is of a good level and all the limits of the results are discussed clearly and well documented. Conclusion is well limited to supporting results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This work is a quality work concerning the reliability and validaty of iPhone app when assessing thoracic spine rotation in healthy individuals. It is rather well documented and very well discussed. The limits being very well defined, I encourage the authors to continue and go further in the validation of this tool. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Reliability and concurrent validity of the iPhone® Compass application to measure thoracic rotation range of motion (ROM) in healthy participants (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4431v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 6, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
