Review History for Assessing universality of DNA barcoding in geographically isolated selected desert medicinal species of Fabaceae and Poaceae [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Assessing universality of DNA barcoding in geographically isolated selected desert medicinal species of Fabaceae and Poaceae To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 8th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 12th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on February 8th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 22nd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marion Röder
·
Feb 22, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your revised version of the manuscript has improved and can be accepted for publication.
label_author_1
Jiyu Zhang ·
Feb 21, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript is interested in selected desert medicinal species and to validate the potential barcodes for these medicinal species.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Combination of multi locus barcode has been analyzed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The validated barcodes will be used for species discrimnation of these medicinal spcies.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This manuscript is significant improved after carefully revising by authors. Cite this review as
Zhang J ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Assessing universality of DNA barcoding in geographically isolated selected desert medicinal species of Fabaceae and Poaceae (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4499v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 8, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marion Röder
·
Dec 12, 2017
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
All three reviewers had some concerns about the manuscript. Please, supply an improved version addressing all comments and questions of the 3 reviewers. Please, describe the performed changes in an accompanying letter to the editor.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 10, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Line 121 “For each specie”, spelling error
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1.Why should this work choose ITS2, matK and rbcLa? Have you ever tried the trnH-psbA region, which is regarded as a supplementary barcode to ITS2 for the identification of medicinal plants? 2.Have you ever tried the multi-locus barcodes in the scope of your study<U+FF1F>Whether the identification efficacy would be better. 3.Table 1 and Table 2 should be displayed in the supplementary files or not described in the table way (e.g. direct explanation) in Materials and Methods part.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Research has been performed to use DNA barcoding for the identification of medicinal species of Fabaceae, and the result showed that ITS2 is an ideal region. What is the innovation and significance of your work? Gao T, Yao H, Song J, Liu C, Zhu Y, Ma X, Pang X, Xu H, Chen S. 2010. Identification of medicinal plants in the family Fabaceae using a potential DNA barcode ITS2. Journal of Ethnopharmacology 130:116-121.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Assessing universality of DNA barcoding in geographically isolated selected desert medicinal species of Fabaceae and Poaceae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4499v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Jiyu Zhang ·
Dec 10, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
So far, many researches are focused on finding universal plant DNA barcoding, and these DNA barcoding works very well only above the genus taxonomy. Therefore, they don’t focus on species identification in the case of very closely related taxa. This aspect of barcoding is extremely challenging and at the same time difficult to reconcile with barcode universality. This manuscript is focus on “DNA barcoding of selected desert medicinal species of Fabaceae and Poaceae” with a very good purpose.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
However, very few samples were tested here to represent on different species. The samples here are representatives of different genera of Fabaceae and Poaceae. There is not a sufficient number of individuals tested.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The manuscript title may be changed according to the plant material. Please cite some recent references specifically working on species identification using DNA barcodes, like Wu et al., PloS one 12: e0182693. A combination of ITS, matK, and rbcL should be tested in different genera of Fabaceae and Poaceae. The indels need to be evaluated through different material. The conclusion of the paper was “ITS2 and matK both are the suitable barcode markers for medicinal species of Fabaceae and Poaceae”. However, according to the results of BLASTn analysis, the species-level identification rates were low in all three regions. And as mentioned in Line 250-251, “Performance of matK and rbcLa was relatively weak at species resolution ability similar to the study of Saadullah et al. (2016) on the DNA barcoding of Poaceae.”, matK sequence didn’t work well in many species in Poaceae. The conclusion ‘matK was a suitable barcode marker for medicinal species of Fabaceae and Poaceae’ from the references was not true. For the name of sequences, such as rbcL and matK, the last capital letter is not italic. Line 283, 302 and 415: Reference with more than six author names, followed by “et al.” Line 285, 301, 309, 409 and 416: The reference format of “PLoS ONE” was not consistent. Some are “PLoS ONE” and others are “PLoS One”. Line 311: Italic. Line 349: Italic. Line 367: Italic. Line 391: Italic.
Cite this review as
Zhang J ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Assessing universality of DNA barcoding in geographically isolated selected desert medicinal species of Fabaceae and Poaceae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4499v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_4
Reviewer 3 ·
Dec 11, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_4
Tahir et al. tested the efficiency of three DNA barcodes (ITS2, matK and rbcLa) for identification of frequently consumed medicinal species of Fabaceae and Poaceae indigenous to the desert of Cholistan using standard barcode gears. The paper was clearly written and well understood. The introduction part clearly showed the purpose of the paper, and cited important relevant literature. The structure of the paper complies with the journal standards, and raw fasta data was provided and solid. However, the tables and figures are not high quality according to criteria of standard publishing of this kind of work. Firstly, a three-line-table should be used; Secondly, all figures are low resolution and hardly readable; Last, bootstrap value of both ML and NJ method should be labelled, but not in %<U+3002>
Experimental design
label_ed_4
The research is in the scope of PeerJ, and the authors tried to evaluate the efficiency of three barcode markers in identifying medical plant of Fabaceae and Poaceae using a standard method. The questions and methods they undertook were well defined and described. However, I think the paper has severe drawbacks concerning selection of study species. Normally, we need to evaluate the utility of barcodes for discrimination of medical plants from its closest relatives and morphologically similar adulterants. Current research only sampled medicinal plants but not their closest relatives or adulterants.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_4
The data were robust and statistically sound, and the conclusions were well stated. The work will add evidence for DNA barcoding as an effective tool for identification of medical plants.
Comments for the author
The authors used three DNA barcodes (ITS2, matK and rbcLa) to identify ten medicinal species of Fabaceae and Poaceae in the desert of Cholistan using a standard barcode protocol. Although the paper was well written and structured, the methods were appropriate and results are solid, it is less meaningful concerning selection of study species, as no studied species’ closest relatives or adulterants are included in the analysis. Other concerns are listed below: 1)In comparing the inter and intra-species K2P distance, the authors should do it separately in Fabaceae and Poaceae, because if you choose species of two families to compare, the inter-species genetic distance should of course be larger. 2)Table 1 and Table 2 could be combined. 3)The NJ tree and ML tree could be combined. 4)The authors should state more clearly in the methods part why to choose these species to investigate. Are they all medicinal plants? Or, some of them are not medicinal plant and just be close relatives of studied medicinal plant. For example, the author only wrote in Introduction that Acacia nilotica is a medicinal plant, and how about A. jacquemontii and A. modesta? 5)A combination of all three markers should be assessed also by the standard barcode procedure, as normally more markers would do a better job in identifying species. 6)Some literature needs editing. For example, all genus names are not italic. I strongly recommend the authors check them throughout the paper. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Assessing universality of DNA barcoding in geographically isolated selected desert medicinal species of Fabaceae and Poaceae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4499v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 8, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
