Review History for Assessing soil bacterial community and dynamics by integrated high-throughput absolute abundance quantification [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Assessing soil bacterial community and dynamics by integrated high-throughput absolute abundance quantification To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 14th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 24th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on February 21st, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 27th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Xiaomin Li
·
Feb 27, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have addressed all the comments from the reviewers and myself.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 21, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Xiaomin Li
·
Jan 24, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
This manuscript employed an integrated method for quantification of microbial community in a mixed culture, which provides an alternative approach for a better understanding of the dynamics of absolute abundance of microbial community during phenanthrene biodegradation in soil. Both reviewers pointed out that the wording and gramma of this manuscript need to be improved greatly for a better interpretation of the results. In addition, the statistical analyses about the data should be addressed and presented clearly. A major revision is required and the authors need to provide a point-to-point response to the comments in details, before consideration of acceptance for publication.
label_author_1
Yongjian Chen ·
Dec 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Lou et al have found that relative abundance and absolute abundance show opposite trend, and they proposed the iHAAQ method to quantitatively measure the absolute abundance. While I acknowledge the importance of combing the qPCR and high-throughput sequencing, some issues such as experimental design, figures and statistical analyses should be assess clearly. Please see the comments below. In addition, there are some small grammatical problems throughout the manuscript, especially in the results. There are also some long sentences that are hard to understand.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The molecular methods are well presented. However, no information about the number of replicates in each treatment was given in the methods. The power and significance of statistical tests are hard to asses if the replicates are missing. In addition, some analyses were not demonstrated in the methods, such as the cluster analysis.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are meaningful and the conclusions are well stated. However, a lot of results about comparisons on relative and absolute abundance should be assessed in a statistical way. Any statistical comparisons on these values? Especially in Fig. 4, Fig. 5 and Fig. 7.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
There are a lot of sentences in the results are actually the description of methods, such as how to calculate the absolute abundance. I think this type of information should be moved to the methods section. In the discussion, a lot of results are repetitive. Please focus on discussing what you found and avoid repeating presenting your results. Line34-35: It is for sure that, any advantage for this study? Line47-48: The question about “who are they” is not assessed in community ecology. Community ecology is about the abundance and distribution of species, community assembly, species interactions, etc. In addition, you seems like talking about microbial species richness here, but you are assessing the abundance of microbes in this study. Line57: Development of specific target genes? Please try to rephrase this sentence. Line61: Again, I don’t think “community ecology” is used appropriately here. Line193: Sequenced with primers? Please try to rephrase this sentence Line220: ANOVA was used with SPSS Line245: Please cite the figures in an appropriate way. Table1: Are these values are mean values in different treatments? How about the standard errors? In addition, I think the test is based on post-hoc multiple comparisons? Which type of multiple comparisons were you using? Fig.1: I think the “introducing the internal reference strain (IRS)” should be placed in the first row of this figure. Fig.2: Can you provide the error bar here? Fig.4: “Minor” is missing in this figure, although you mentioned in the legend. The phyla names should be italic. Fig.4, Fig.5 and Fig.7: A lot of results about which one is higher or which one decreases are presented in the text. But are these comparisons statically validated? It is more appropriate if you can provide the error bars and statistical comparisons on these values. Cite this review as
Chen Y ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Assessing soil bacterial community and dynamics by integrated high-throughput absolute abundance quantification (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4514v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The present manuscript described an iHAAQ method, which combined the high-throughput seq with qPCR (ideally V4 region of 16S rDNA), to reveal the absolute abundance of microbial community. Although such combination has been noted previously (Props, R. ISME J, 2016; Stammler, F. Microbiome, 2016; Zhang Z. Scientific reports, 2017), the study has its own merits: Validation of the reliability and accuracy of iHAAQ by an internal reference strain EDL933 and a strain WG5 with PAH degrading ability. The study is well designed and conducted, and obtained data are sufficient to support the conclusions. Overall it is an interesting paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The study is well designed and conducted, and obtained data are sufficient to support the conclusions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
-It has been widely admitted that template-specific Illumina sequencing artifacts may lead to biases in the perceived abundance of certain taxa, that is, the wide range of experimental variables may introduce bias at all steps of a typical 16S-seq workflow. Did authors take any measure to minimize the bias effects? -The discussion needs to include some comments about synthetic spike-in standards (Nucleic Acids Research, 2017, Vol. 45, No. 4 e23 doi: 10.1093/nar/gkw984) - 16S rRNA is variable in copy numbers in bacterial genomes, more specific information should be given in Line 210-212. -Lots of phrases not sufficiently concise, for example, the redundancy in Line 69-74, is it really necessary to apply detailed data for illustration? -The information in line 94-97 was contradictory to that in line 90-92. -Line 126, PHE, full name should be given on its first appearance. -Readable, but does need some grammer and misc corrections throughout.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Assessing soil bacterial community and dynamics by integrated high-throughput absolute abundance quantification (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4514v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 14, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
