Review History for Fatigue and perceptual responses of heavier- and lighter-load isolated lumbar extension resistance exercise in males and females [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Fatigue and perceptual responses of heavier- and lighter-load isolated lumbar extension resistance exercise in males and females To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 12th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 13th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on February 28th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 1st, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Scotty Butcher
·
Mar 1, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your attention to the reviewer's comments and for addressing their suggestions. I agree with your rebuttal of reviewer 2's comments on the nature of low load/endurance vs strength for rehabilitation purposes. I believe that research such as yours will go a long way to help rehab practitioners improve their knowledge and skill in obtaining physiological effects with therapeutic exercise. Congratulations! Scotty
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 28, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Scotty Butcher
·
Feb 13, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for your submission of this well written manuscript, based on a well conducted study. Please see the comments from the reviewers. Upon resubmission, please address each of the reviewers' comments with your changes or rebuttal. I look forward to receiving the next draft. Scotty
label_author_1
Daniel Ogborn ·
Feb 6, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors have provided a succinct, clear report of their study with well described methodology and rationale. Thank you for providing the raw data. The group codes in the supplementary file currently use numerical values (1 vs 2), that could be unmasked to what I assume is male and female based on the values.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment, adequately designed and described methodology.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Line 343-345: Participant flow is adequately documented in the study, and that the target sample size was not attained. Consequently, the between-sex comparisons may be under powered. This could be substantiated by providing a post hoc power calculation and discussion as to what degree of difference one should consider meaningful between the sexes. Is there a clinically important difference for fatigue values, or a difference that at least exceeds the measurement error such that we would need to consider the power of the comparison?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
-Lines 355-358: The authors conclude that based on the differential fatigue response between the sexes, that training program modifications may be required based on sex. It is not necessarily clear what outcomes would be expected to be different between males and females in this instance. Many studies have demonstrated comparable hypertrophic and improved (but differential) strength responses with varying training loads taken to the point of failure, would there be other relevant adaptations that should be considered in the context of this data or muscle group? Discussion on this may be somewhat speculative in nature and beyond the scope of the article but would enhance the existing statement. -Line 27/28: Inconsistent spacing between numerical symbols and numbers, this is also evident in figure legends and tables (PDF rendering issue?) -Line 186: Unnecessary footnote, could be included in the paragraph -Line 369/ Line 45: Fatigue occurred following both high and low load exercise, but only in the low-load condition is fatigue referred to as "debilitating". What differentiates the use of the term "fatigue" and "debilitating fatigue". Stating "increased fatigue" may be more appropriate. -Line 367-70: Is there a common misconception in rehabilitation settings that low-training is required to strengthen the musculature? This may have less to do with a relationship to desired training adaptations and relate more to clinician perceptions of loading tolerance/pain. The data on fatigue and discomfort is useful clinically, however, is there any connection between RPE-D and pain (i.e. NPRS)? Is the perception of clinicians that the use of low-loads reduces the risk of increasing pain relative to high loads, irrespective of discomfort? -Line 371: "....in other rehabilitation environments". It is not clear what rehabilitation environment this was completed in. Were they asymptomatic, healthy controls? If so, should read "....rehabilitation environments" Cite this review as
Ogborn D ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Fatigue and perceptual responses of heavier- and lighter-load isolated lumbar extension resistance exercise in males and females (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4523v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 8, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Reporting is overall very well done. Abstract: final sentence - lighter load is in fact used in rehabilitative settings to increase 'endurance' of the lumbar extensors as an extension from Biering Sorensen's original finding of decreased endurance and its association with back pain. However, as load is required for strength the statement is flawed. Lighter load may increase endurance, but not strength. Please revise the sentence. Some disparity in the wording of the aims in the final sentence of the introduction and the first sentence of the discussion. Restating may be easier for the reader. Table 1 - please change Kg to kg (SI units) Line 156 - Comma after incurred Line 158 - Comma after effort Line 275 - A reference is needed in here. Line 442 - Capitalize Journal
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Line 130 - How was lumbar ROM assessed? Seeing there are numerous ways of assessing this, some explanation for reproduction may be warranted.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Not a criticism as the authors have reported on both central and peripheral influences to fatigue, some of Professor Samuel Marcora's newer work on the central influence of fatigue (if its published yet) could be added. This could be an nice addition to the discussion around Line 321.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Congratulations on a well written paper. Some minor modifications are suggested. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Fatigue and perceptual responses of heavier- and lighter-load isolated lumbar extension resistance exercise in males and females (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4523v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 12, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
