Review History for Conserving relics from ancient underground worlds: assessing the influence of cave and landscape features on obligate iron cave dwellers from the Eastern Amazon [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Conserving relics from ancient underground worlds: assessing the influence of cave and landscape features on obligate iron cave dwellers from the Eastern Amazon To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 15th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 10th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on March 3rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 3rd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jack Stanford
·
Mar 3, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The reviewers were experts in the field and their comments were minor. Thank you for responding thoroughly to what they did have to say. I think this will be an important paper in the conservation of caves and care faunas.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 3, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jack Stanford
·
Feb 10, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I had no substantive issues with the paper. Please take care of the minor comments of the reviewers and you should be in good shape with it. Be sure to include a rebuttal letter to me as to how you addressed these minor comments.
label_author_1
David Culver ·
Jan 22, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I thought the authors did an admirable job of reporting their results and I had few comments (on annotated pdf file)
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I found the statistical methods to be both thorough and innovative. My only suggestion of substance was to consider using a weighted richness measure where each occurrence for a species occurring n time is weighted 1/n. This weights species equally.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
As the authors point out, the findings are novel, especially with respect to spatial structure.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Iron caves are small. I have generally thought that the primary habitat was the MSS (canga?) and that caves were sampling sites. I realize the importance of caves under Brazilian law, but I wonder if you could comment on this in the discussion. It actually ties in quite well with your findings. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Culver D ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Conserving relics from ancient underground worlds: assessing the influence of cave and landscape features on obligate iron cave dwellers from the Eastern Amazon (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4531v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Mark Harvey ·
Feb 2, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript represents an attempt to document the spatial and disturbance variables that might affect troglobitic communities and their constituent species in the iron caves of eastern Brazil. The manuscript is well-written and mostly unambiguous. I have uploaded a version of the manuscript with a few small suggestions highlighted. The context is clearly explained, and the literature cited seems comprehensive.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I am not fully conversant with the statistical packages used in the study, but I cannot detect any major flaws. The research questions are well defined.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
This is a novel study centered on the controversial topic of the conservation of trogolobitic communities in the face of anthropogenic land uses changes. The findings appear to be well supported and do not over-reach the data or the analyses.
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Harvey M ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Conserving relics from ancient underground worlds: assessing the influence of cave and landscape features on obligate iron cave dwellers from the Eastern Amazon (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4531v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 15, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
