Review History for Reference gene selection for qRT-PCR assays in Stellera chamaejasme subjected to abiotic stresses and hormone treatments based on transcriptome datasets [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Reference gene selection for qRT-PCR assays in Stellera chamaejasme subjected to abiotic stresses and hormone treatments based on transcriptome datasets To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 8th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 18th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on February 22nd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on March 6th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 6th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Ana Ribeiro-Barros
·
Mar 6, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr Xin and Dr. Yahui, After Reading the second version of the revised MS, it is my pleasure to communicate that the MS is now accepted for publication. Thank you to consider Peer J to publish your work. Sincerely Ana I Ribeiro-Barros
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 6, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Ana Ribeiro-Barros
·
Feb 27, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr Xin, Thank you to consider Peer J to publish your work. Altough the MS has improved considerably, I still think that some minor details should be addressed to improve the quality of the paper. These are highlighted in the attached pdf file. Please send me the final version as you feel appropriate, and after that I will accept the paper. Sincerely, Ana I Ribeiro-Barros
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 22, 2018
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ana Ribeiro-Barros
·
Jan 18, 2018
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr Xin, Thank you for your submission to PeerJ. Please address the reviewer comments as noted below.
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Ana Fortunato ·
Jan 5, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The English language should be improved to ensure that the readers can clearly understand your text. Some examples where the language could be improved are highlighted in the annotated PDF file. The current phrasing makes comprehension difficult. Typing errors should also be corrected.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The section of materials and methods raises several doubts that should be clarified, namely: 1-The authors should include in the text a justification for choosing these particular 10 candidate genes (RGs). 2-No justification is given for the use of the concentration of 300mM for salt treatment nor the percentage of 20% of PEG for the drought treatment. Have the authors done some previous studies that show that these concentrations are adequate to induce the stresses? 3-In the case of plants obtained from seeds in which the variability will certainly be high, three biological replicates may not be sufficient to guarantee a good sampling, four replicates should be the minimum. Please explain why you did not use a greater number of plants in each treatment. 4-As the authors point out gene expression is dependent on the organ or tissue. So why was the study done on “complete seedlings” instead of leaves, roots and stems separately? 5-Did the authors used any negative controls for de qRT-PCRs? It should be mentioned in the text. 6-Did the authors check for DNA contamination in the RNA samples? It should be mentioned in the text. 7-It is not clear which cDNA was used to confirm primers specificity (lines 135- 140). Please explain. 8-It is not clear which cDNA samples were used to determine primers efficiencies (lines 144- 152). Please explain.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The sections of results and discussion raises several doubts that should be clarified, namely: 1- In lines 197-198 the authors say:” Instead, GAPDH2 showed the lowest expression level….”. This in not in accordance with Figure 1. Please check. 2-It is not clear how the comprehensive stability analysis of RGs was made. Please clarify which methodology / tool used. 3- Please check other comments/suggestions in the annotated PDF file.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
It should be emphasized the importance of the previous selection of RGs because only in this way we can guarantee the reliability and robustness of the of expression studies and RNA-seq data analysis. However, in its current form, the manuscript shows several flaws. Still, the authors are encouraged to respond and to resolve the issues raised. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Fortunato A ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Reference gene selection for qRT-PCR assays in Stellera chamaejasme subjected to abiotic stresses and hormone treatments based on transcriptome datasets (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4535v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 13, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript needs language editing. L93-L95: when introducing GI, its role in salt stress resistance (see, e.g., www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19542296) should also be mentioned Lines 302-309 describe in detail why 18S is not a suitable RG. I think this is obvious from Figures 4, 5 and 6 and does not have to be included in the discussion. L312: tissue-specific - for which tissue? Line 318: The reference for the SOS pathway is not correct. And I wonder whether the authors wanted to quote www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23322040 for the effects of ABA on GI expression instead of www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23656866. Format of References:italicize species names, do not capitalize titles
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The paper fits the Aims and Scope of PeerJ, and I see no problems with the experimental design and statistical analysis. However, I wonder why not more candidates for RGs were examined. Besides, why was mon1 selected as a housekeeping gene? It encodes a protein that, among other functions, regulates programmed cell death (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27799422).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The choice of 10 potential RGs led to the identification of suitably stable RG combinations for the six experimental conditions under analysis. However, as shown in Figures 5 and 6, only one RG combination was suited for more than one condition (drought/cold). This raises the question whether the analysis of more potential RGs would have yielded a combination that worked for more conditions.
Comments for the author
The text has to be corrected by a native speaker. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Reference gene selection for qRT-PCR assays in Stellera chamaejasme subjected to abiotic stresses and hormone treatments based on transcriptome datasets (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4535v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 8, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
