Review History for Stability of an ophthalmic formulation of polyhexamethylene biguanide in gamma-sterilized and ethylene oxide sterilized low density polyethylene multidose eyedroppers [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Stability of an ophthalmic formulation of polyhexamethylene biguanide in gamma-sterilized and ethylene oxide sterilized low density polyethylene multidose eyedroppers To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 29th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 19th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on March 8th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 8th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Stephen Macknik
·
Mar 8, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for your updates and revisions. I recommend publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 8, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Stephen Macknik
·
Feb 19, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers were happy with the quality of the manuscript with the only significant comment being to add bioassays to test the biological activity (not just stability as measured). Reviewer 1: Bioassays, such as MIC testing or time-kills against standard bacterial isolates or the use of an Acanthamoeba complete-kill assay (Kowalski RP, Abdel Aziz S, Romanowski EG, Shanks RMQ, Raju LV. Development of a Practical Complete-Kill assay to Evaluate Anti-Acanthamoeba Drugs. JAMA Ophthalmol 2013;131(11):1459.) to determine bioactivity would have provided important supplemental data for this study. I agree this would be wise. Please address this concern in your resubmission.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is written clearly and in proper English. The Introduction provides a large amount of background information which is cited appropriately. Figures and tables are appropriate and the raw data is supplied.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The research question is well defined and relevant. However I believe another measure of stability should have been performed. As a microbiologist, I believe that a bioassay demonstrating antimicrobial activity against a number of bacteria or Acanthamoeba isolates should have been performed to demonstrate antimicrobial similar activity at the various time points.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I believe the data is valid, but lacking antimicrobial biological activity data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I commend the authors for a well-written manuscript describing the stability of PHMB eye drops over three months and contained in bottles sterilized using different methods and at different storage temperatures. A number of assays were used to analyze the PHMB concentrations over time, osmolality, pH, and breakdown products over time. The concentration of PHMB was determined using LC. While I believe that determining the PHMB concentrations and breakdown products over time is very important to demonstrated chemical stability, the authors do not demonstrate that the biological activity of PHMB was not affected. Bioassays, such as MIC testing or time-kills against standard bacterial isolates or the use of an Acanthamoeba complete-kill assay (Kowalski RP, Abdel Aziz S, Romanowski EG, Shanks RMQ, Raju LV. Development of a Practical Complete-Kill assay to Evaluate Anti-Acanthamoeba Drugs. JAMA Ophthalmol 2013;131(11):1459.) to determine bioactivity would have provided important supplemental data for this study. I believe that stability testing of all antimicrobials should be tested against susceptible and resistant organisms to determine whether there is any degradation of biological activity. If the authors do not have this data to include in this manuscript , then this point should be discussed as a limitation of the study in the manuscript and the reason why it was not done also included. Minor Points Line 73: It is stated that Acanthamoeba trophozoites are “sensitive” to antibiotics. Microorganisms are not “sensitive” to antibiotics, they are “susceptible”. Line 88: The Gram in Gram-positive and Gram-negative should be capitalized as Gram is a proper name. Lines 109 - 112: It is stated on lines 109-112 “The objective of this study was to assess the physicochemical and microbiological stability of a PHMB 0.2 mg/mL (0.02%) ophthalmic solution in two different low-density polyethylene multidose eyedropper, at two conservation conditions (5 °C and 25°C) for three months in unopened eyedroppers and during 10 hours of simulated patient use. It is stated that the “microbiological stability” of PHMB was assessed. Reading this, I am expecting to see microbiological data such as MICs, and not sterility data of the solutions. This statement should be reworded as the readers do not misinterpret the intent of the statement, so as to expect antimicrobial data rather than sterility of the solutions over time. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Stability of an ophthalmic formulation of polyhexamethylene biguanide in gamma-sterilized and ethylene oxide sterilized low density polyethylene multidose eyedroppers (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4549v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 19, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
See uploaded PDF file
Experimental design
label_ed_2
See uploaded PDF file
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See uploaded PDF file
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
See uploaded PDF file Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Stability of an ophthalmic formulation of polyhexamethylene biguanide in gamma-sterilized and ethylene oxide sterilized low density polyethylene multidose eyedroppers (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4549v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 29, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
