Review History for High resolution crystal structures of the receptor-binding domain of Clostridium botulinum neurotoxin serotypes A and FA [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History High resolution crystal structures of the receptor-binding domain of Clostridium botulinum neurotoxin serotypes A and FA To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 7th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 21st, 2018. The first revision was submitted on March 8th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 8th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Mar 8, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you very much for addressing all concerns of the reviewers and for careful revision. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 8, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Feb 21, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address the issues raised by all three reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is generally well written, with only a few minor errors that need to be corrected. Literature cited properly. Figures are good, although the main difference compared to an existing structure of HC/FA, namely the presence of the electron density for the loop 1261-1268 is not illustrated.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Nothing novel in the presented results compared to those already available in the literature, but the experiments have been done well.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data are sound, conclusions well stated, although nothing novel has been presented.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The main difference between the structures described here, namely the visibility of the loop 1261-1268 in HC/FA, is of only limited interest, since conformations of flexible loops, even those involved in biologically relevant interactions, are not very illuminating unless they are seen in a proper context, and not as crystal contacts. Similarly, the presence or absence of disulphides is also simply related to conditions of crystallization. A few minor errors that should be corrected: Lines 32-33 "The toxins target...through a dual receptor binding model". No, they don't do it through a model, but through binding to two receptors. Please rephrase. Line 37 "A through to /G" - please make it "A through /G" Line 115 remove comma after "group," Line 159 is "invaluable" the best word here? Legend to Fig. 1 5MK1 is probably in error, 5mk6 meant Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "High resolution crystal structures of the receptor-binding domain of Clostridium botulinum neurotoxin serotypes A and FA (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4552v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is well written.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The structural analysis is overall robust, although some additional information about the findings is requested as described in the general comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript describes the high resolution crystal structures of the receptor binding domain (Hc) from two botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs), Hc/FA and Hc/A1. These structures can potentially provide insights into the binding specificity of these BoNTs in recognizing particular receptors. The main new findings include the observation of an Hc/FA loop conformation that was disordered in a previous structure, and the discovery of a disulfide bond in both Hc/FA and Hc/A1 that was not observed in previous structures. The structural data are technically sound. However, multiple structures of both Hc/FA and Hc/A1 had been previously determined either for the domains themselves or as part of the whole protein. Therefore there need to be more discussion of the new scientific insights gained from these structures, in comparison to the previous structures, for both Hc/FA and Hc/A1. 1) One of the main new findings is the R1261-R1268 loop conformation in Hc/FA, yet there is no figure showing its electron density or relating this loop to receptor binding (a role suggested by the authors) by comparing the current structure to previous complex structures. 2) In Fig. 1, it will be useful if the authors could show the locations of the disulfide bonds and the R1261-R1268 loop. In addition, it may be worth indicating the N and C-termini on the structure. 3) Table 1, the Rwork and Rfree of the 1.45 Angstrom resolution structure seem high, relative to its resolution. It will be informative if the authors can comment on this, particularly compared with the other two lower resolution structures. Did the refinement use anisotropic B factors? 4) line 134, the average B factor of the loop should be provided. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "High resolution crystal structures of the receptor-binding domain of Clostridium botulinum neurotoxin serotypes A and FA (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4552v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Feb 21, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript is well written and easy to follow.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The experiments are well designed and well performed. The structure of the receptor binding domain from BoNT/FA has been reported before. The authors do however provide new insight and clearly reference and compare to the previous study. The structure of HcA has been reported, however an interesting difference in a disulphide bond and the resulting structural rearrangements is reported.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
All statistics look good and the data is of good quality.
Comments for the author
This is a solid study reporting a some new observations. The paper is well written and should be accepted after minor revisions. The contouring level and type of map (Fo-Fc?) for figure 2 should be added. A description of how the map was calculated should be added to material and methods (what program was used). P422 is an unusual space group. Alternative space groups should be examined and the possibility of twinning should be considered (could give false high symmetry). A sequence alignment between subtypes and serotypes should be included to visualise and discus the conservation of the cysteine. The position of the cysteine and the loop that is discussed, should be indicated in the figure 1. A picture shoving an overlay with the ganglioside complex should be included to clarify the role of the loop in BoNT/HA that is discussed. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "High resolution crystal structures of the receptor-binding domain of Clostridium botulinum neurotoxin serotypes A and FA (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4552v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 7, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
