Review History for A complete, multi-level conformational clustering of antibody complementarity-determining regions [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A complete, multi-level conformational clustering of antibody complementarity-determining regions To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 23rd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 9th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on May 23rd, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 5th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Lennart Martens
·
Jun 5, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Congratulations on the acceptance of your manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 23, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Lennart Martens
·
Apr 9, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As you have submitted two linked manuscripts, I have endeavoured to have the same reviewers assigned to both manuscripts. The reviewers agree that your work warrants separate manuscripts, yet provided some comments for you to address for each separate manuscript. For this manuscript, the comments are minor, and you can find the details below. You will shortly receive my decision on the linked manuscript as well.
label_author_1
Brendan Howlin ·
Mar 24, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is clearly written and free of typographical errors.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is clearly explained and well implemented. The novel idea to use all the available data is well justifed and commented upon. The data mining involving clustering and pruning of dendrograms is state of the art.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data are robust and statistically sound. The paper presents a new classification of recognition loops on antibodies that uses all the available data (up to 2011) and should be of real use to researchers engaged in understanding or designing antibodies.
Cite this review as
Howlin BJ ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "A complete, multi-level conformational clustering of antibody complementarity-determining regions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.456v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
elien vandermarliere ·
Apr 1, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript ‘A complete, multi-level conformational clustering of antibody complementarity-determining regions’ of Nikoloudis and coworkers describes a machine learning based method to group/determine the different canonical states of the CDRs of Abs. The manuscript is fluently written.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors decided to not remove redundant Abs. This is to my opinion a very good approach, because indeed, this allows the usage of much more structural information (Ab can be unbound in one structure and bound to an antigen in another structure). But, a short description on whether or not these different PDB-entries fall in different classes is missing and should be added. A short elaboration on the ‘special’ Abs should be given. Do cameloid-derived Abs full within a separate cluster? What about Bence-Jones Abs?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No comments. Cite this review as
vandermarliere e ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "A complete, multi-level conformational clustering of antibody complementarity-determining regions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.456v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Apr 3, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_3
In this manuscript, the authors reported classification of CDRs of antibodies based on crystal structures in the PDB. It is well known that antibodies have a limited number of conformations in the antigen-binding site other than the H3 region. So a lot of similar works to this study have been done in the last decades. However, As clearly written in the Introduction, an advantage of this work is that the authors classified redundant antibody structures, so it is most comprehensive. Although there are a few public databases, such as SAbDab, that make it possible to analyze all available CDR structures, this is the first study that explicitly examined all the antibody structures.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
This work is technically sound, and this manuscripts could be a dictionary for antibody engineers. I have two comments on the flow of the analysis. The authors classified redundant CDRs, but they did not discuss the outliers of the classifications at all. I wonder if the authors could go a step further by analyzing those outliers. For example, crystal structures that have bad resolution tend to be in the outliers? CDRs derived from a particular germline gene could be more diverse? Does antigen-binding affect canonical conformations? Although the authors compared their results with most of the previous works and made the Tables for comparison, they missed a recent work, which also analyzed redundant CDR, but only for L3 regions (Teplyakov and Gilliland Proteins 2014). I would suggest the that authors also compare their result with it. Teplyakov and Gilliland showed the same L3 sequences could have the same canonical conformations even when they paired with different VH domains. Is this true for the other CDRs?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data is sound, but could be better, as I mentioned above. In the final paragraph in the page 25, the authors concluded that the classification was presented with annotated and post-analzyed clustered data, and this work filled a gap in related studies by creating links between all related prior knowledge. However, the authors did not discuss the outliers, which, I think, are most important in this work. On the other hand, the authors themselves mentioned that this work would need a separate dedicated study for each cluster to make it more valuable (1st paragraph in the page 23). These two paragraphs sound contradicting. Also, the authors stated that this work is useful for antibody humanization. But the following statement in the page 23 is not clear. "the conservation of canonical residues in the designed sequence often leads to binding versions and vice versa."
Comments for the author
The authors used several text searches to extract antibody structures in the PDB. This is sufficient. But, probably, an easier and more accurate way might have been that they use BLAST against the whole PDB sequences. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #3 of "A complete, multi-level conformational clustering of antibody complementarity-determining regions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.456v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 23, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
