Review History for 2D versus 3D real time ultrasound with live xPlane imaging to visualize aortic and ductal arches: comparison between methods [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History 2D versus 3D real time ultrasound with live xPlane imaging to visualize aortic and ductal arches: comparison between methods To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 13th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 28th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on March 6th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 10th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Offer Erez
·
Mar 10, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors has addressed the comments of the reviewer and improved the manuscript substantially and it can now accepted for publication
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 6, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Offer Erez
·
Feb 28, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Dr. Mastrolia, Your paper has been reviewed by two experts in the field who raised major criticisms. One of them suggested to reject the manuscript, however, I think that the topic is interesting and timely and this manuscript has the potential to be of use to the community, therefore, I would like to reconsider your manuscript for publication that will address all the concerns raised by the reviewers.
label_author_1
Ahmed Nassr ·
Feb 27, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a prospective observational study evaluating the feasibility of using 3D Real Time Ultrasound with live xPlane imaging for visualization of the aortic and ductal arches during fetal echocardiography and comparing this technique to the standard 2D approach. Main issues: 1-Manuscript needs professional English editing 2- Avoid using the term cardiac malformations thoughtout the text. “cardiac anomalies” would be a better fit.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1-Feasibility of 3D real time ultrasound with live xPlane imaging for visualization of aortic and ductal arches was established by Xiong et al. This article mainly added the analysis of various factors (fetal position, movements, operator experience) affecting successful acquisition of arches views and the difference in time needed between 2D and Xplane imaging. This needs to be stressed in the objectives of the study. “Xiong Y, Chen M, Chan LW, Ting YH, Fung TY, Leung TY, and Lau TKA 2012aA A novel way of visualizing the ductal and aortic arches by real-time three-dimensional ultrasound with live xPlane imaging. Ultrasound Obstet Gynecol 39:316-321A 10A1002/uogA9081” 2-The authors mentioned that the study was conducted between March 2015 and December 2016 and included all pregnant women at time of fetal anatomic survey with no indication for fetal echo. My question is how was these 114 women selected? During almost 22 months only 114 women scanned? Please explain in methodology section. 3-Discussion section of the abstract is a repeat of what was already mentioned in the introduction. This section should focus on value of your results.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are useful in understanding the limitations and various factors affecting (fetal position, movements, operator experience) affecting successful acquisition of arches views and the difference in time needed between 2D and Xplane imaging.
Cite this review as
Nassr A ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "2D versus 3D real time ultrasound with live xPlane imaging to visualize aortic and ductal arches: comparison between methods (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4561v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 28, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Comments on the paper “2D versus 3D Real Time Ultrasound with live xPlane imaging to visualize aortic and ductal arches: comparison between methods” by Stefania Dell'Oro et al. The authors evaluated 114 patients between 18+1 to 21+6 weeks of gestation using normal 2D ultrasound and a commercially available technique based on live 3D ultrasound (XPlane) •No significant differences were observed, significantly longer period of time to obtain the required planes with XPlane .
Experimental design
label_ed_2
•No abnormal cases were included. •The potential benefits of the new technique cannot be assessed in this study
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
•No real benefit with the new technique can be achieved • •The potential benefits of the new technique cannot be assessed in this study
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
•No significant differences were observed, significantly longer period of time to obtain the required planes with XPlane . •No real benefit with the new technique can be achieved •No abnormal cases were included. •The potential benefits of the new technique cannot be assessed in this study •The results showed that in normal pregnancies for operators level 1 and 2 2D ultrasound is still the standard for cardiac evaluation Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "2D versus 3D real time ultrasound with live xPlane imaging to visualize aortic and ductal arches: comparison between methods (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4561v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 13, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
