Review History for Insights on the structure and stability of Licanantase: a trimeric acid-stable coiled-coil lipoprotein from Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Insights on the structure and stability of Licanantase: a trimeric acid-stable coiled-coil lipoprotein from Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 23rd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 6th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.1 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Jun 6, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
As you can see, both reviewers agreed that your manuscript is well designed and recommended acceptance of original submission. This is a rather unique and unusual event since not too many manuscripts are accepted without revision. Congratulations!
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 2, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
NO comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In this manuscript entitled “Insights on the structure and stability of Licanantase: a trimeric acid-stable coiled-coil lipoprotein from Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans by Abarca et al , the authors describe prediction of the 3D structure of lipoprotein from Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans. The prediction is based on the sequence similarity with Lpp, an Escherichia coli lipoprotein, that can form stable trimers in solution. Furthermore, their conclusion is supported by cross-linking experiments. The structure is modeled and its molecular dynamics properties are explored. In my opinion, this work was done at a good scientific level. The conclusions are supported by the results obtained. The predicted protein has important industrial application. Minor suggestions: Circular dichroism study could provide additional support. It would be nice to have a more detail discussion about how their structural conclusion can help to identify function (functionally important residues) of this protein. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Insights on the structure and stability of Licanantase: a trimeric acid-stable coiled-coil lipoprotein from Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.457v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Saša Bjelic ·
Jun 6, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I find this work on Licantase(Lic) by Abarca et al well designed and performed. The outcomes are also valuable for the understanding of the function of protein. Beside the insights on Lic the understanding of the Lpp is broadened as well.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experiments are designed and performed at the state of art level. Only minor point considering attention are the expression and cross linking experiments. The blots should be performed in a more "professional" way (meaning lover voltage/current) or at least they should pass the software corrections for the rather high background.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The validity of the finding are given: positive and negative controls were applied as needed. Minor point that should be addressed or be a topic of a future paper: the cross linking experiments give just a hint for a trimeric nature of the Lic, but no proof. Therefore a analytical ultracentrifugation experiment accompanied with circular dichroism one would give a solid proof for the theoretical findings.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The preparation of the representative structures for the unfolding pathway would provide explanations of the stability of those trimeric proteins. A compressed file containing those structures could be a part of Supplementary Information. Cite this review as
Bjelic S ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Insights on the structure and stability of Licanantase: a trimeric acid-stable coiled-coil lipoprotein from Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.457v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 23, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
