Review History for Oligotrophic wetland sediments susceptible to shifts in microbiomes and mercury cycling with dissolved organic matter addition [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Oligotrophic wetland sediments susceptible to shifts in microbiomes and mercury cycling with dissolved organic matter addition To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 1st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 25th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on March 14th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 15th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Smoak
·
Mar 15, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
It was a pleasure serving as your editor. Quality manuscripts such as yours make my job easy. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 14, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Smoak
·
Feb 25, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This is a very nice manuscript and the suggested revisions are rather minor. I look forward to seeing your revised manuscript. Please let me know if you need any clarification on the reviewer comments.
label_author_1
Britt Hall ·
Feb 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a nicely written clear account of a factoral experiment to determine the impact of plant leachates on methylmercury production in a freshwater wetland. There are a few newer reviews that should be included in subsequent revisions. Symbols on figures would be better a bit larger.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The subject is entirely appropriate for PeerJ. The methods need some work. While many of the methods included in the supplimental materials should stay there, there is quite a bit of details required in the main paper to make the methods clear. I have added what I think is needed in comments on the text file.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I can not comment on the statistical analysis. The data is robust. I think that there needs to be some work on the implications of the use of 16S methods to determine the microbes present vs. the fact that just because they are present, doesn't mean they actually methylate. More details in comments in the text file.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Nice paper. I look forward to seeing the revised manuscript if deemed appropriate by the editors. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Hall BD ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Oligotrophic wetland sediments susceptible to shifts in microbiomes and mercury cycling with dissolved organic matter addition (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4575v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a well-written manuscripts on the impacts of DOM to mercury methylation in vegetated and unvegetated microcosms.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experimental design was well done. Statistical tests were generally correct and sound.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings on the effects of leachate on microbial community structure is the most important finding different from previous study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Line 53: citation by publication time or alphabetic order of first author? Line 67-68: need to know where is St Louis River, there is another one Florida. Line 188 and Line 191: “at XXXXXX”? Line 227: why was SUVA>7 removed? Line 249-250: you may use Spearman Rank correlation if data were not normally distributed. Line 271: should be ug/g wt sediment. Line 279-280: leachate did not stimulate MeHg in vegetated sediment but did increase MeHg in oligotrophic unvegetated environment. Why? Line 292-303 This is a multi-discipline study. Maybe not all the readers understand all aspects of the technical work. I would like to see for example, which group of methylators require sulfate and not require sulfate. Giving the name of the microbial group is not sufficient. Line 388: it seems this is contradictory to Line 279-280 if I don’t read it wrong. Fig 1: +/- may be expressed as ± Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Oligotrophic wetland sediments susceptible to shifts in microbiomes and mercury cycling with dissolved organic matter addition (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4575v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 1, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
