Review History for Out of control mortality matters: the effect of perceived uncontrollable mortality risk on a health-related decision [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Out of control mortality matters: the effect of perceived uncontrollable mortality risk on a health-related decision To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 3rd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 13th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on June 6th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 8th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Gerhard Andersson
·
Jun 8, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors. Thank you for making the effort to shorten and improve your ms. I am happy to accept it in its current form.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 6, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Gerhard Andersson
·
May 13, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors. I read your ms with great interest and agree with the reviewer that your manuscript would be suitable for publication given some minor amendments. In particular I strongly encourage you to follow the suggestion to condense and shorten your paper. Moreover the suggested recommendation for future research could be made more explicit (eg larger samples).
label_author_1
Antonio Silva ·
Apr 25, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I think there is too much detail on the various theoretical frameworks presented in the introduction with seemingly similar predictions, and I would suggest substantially reducing this section. I would also suggest a re-writing the section of the Uncontrollable Mortality Risk Hypothesis (UMRH); the summary paragraph 148-154 includes most of the relevant information and the rest should instead be referred to the theoretical model (Nettle, 2010). On the other hand, I would welcome a little more on evolutionary perspective of the main hypothesis, specifically on the proximate and ultimate causes of the evolution of the behaviour (as described on lines 113-116). Do you argue it's maladaptive? Or do instead believe it’s part of an adaptive strategy to increase RS in an unstable environment? The methods section is again perhaps too detailed. The article would improve if a more concise version was provided in the main text, with the rest added to the SI. However, do keep the priming questions in the main text. If you ran the full models with the co-variates, are the treatments still significant? If that’s the case do you think this is just because of lack of power? Ideally you should present the full model with all theoretically valid variables included (at least in the SI) Minor Points: - Remove bracket before Kong on line 70 - Please briefly allude to what Kong & Shen, 2011 found in their experiment. - Please mention you used Super Output Areas (SOAs) as your neighbourhood geographic unit, if that's the case. - I think the legends of Table 1 and 2 are inversed. - Tables should be more concise, put SD and 95% CI in brackets with the mean and odds ratio, respectively, and present the units of the means. - Missing dates for when experiment 2 was conducted. - Show graphs in colour to improve legibility. - Missing “to” in between “used” and “increase” in line 721 - There should not be a significant asterisk for Treatment on Table 4 as it’s only marginally significant
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The controllable primes you used are arguably explicit primes, as in experiments 1 and 2 they mention diet, so you may be directly priming the participants to want to eat healthier food. In experiment 3, there’s a slightly less explicit priming, but “looking after themselves” is still easily connected to making a healthier choice. As a result, this does not specifically test the UMRH (as distinguished from other hypotheses, described in lines 132-140), as the same prediction would apply to other hypotheses. This should be added as a limitation in the discussion, and “unconnected health-related decision” in line 665 and “primes seemed to be implicit and automatic” in line 712 appear to me as an over-statement. I'm aware that there are two schools of thought in relation to lying to experiment participants, but this is problematic and should be avoided, as increases distrust of participants in future experiments (i.e. pollutes the sample). In an Economics journal this would be enough reason for this study to not be published. Nevertheless, I understand that providing the true life expectancies would have been logistically more complex and you would have required a larger sample, but nevertheless you seem to have done that in experiment 2 and 3. Not a crucial point, but why use IMD rank as a co-variate instead of IMD scores? Neighbourhoods with similar scores can have very different ranks, so I think it would be more accurate to use scores.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The UMRH and your tests are specifically related to mortality cues, but wouldn’t it be likely that any type of exposure to risk produce similar results? Why would humans have a specialised reaction to mortality, instead of a more general heuristic? In order to test that specifically mortality cues are priming behaviour and not other ‘bad’ things happening, you would have to compare the mortality cue with other negative cues, for example controllable and uncontrollable criminality or morbidity cues. I would suggest mentioning this in the discussion.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall, I think the studies presented are very interesting and in particular the 3rd experiment, which would be great if it could be replicated with a larger sample size. Cite this review as
Silva AS ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Out of control mortality matters: the effect of perceived uncontrollable mortality risk on a health-related decision (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.459v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 3, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
