Review History for Bird-window collisions in the summer breeding season [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Bird-window collisions in the summer breeding season To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 8th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 22nd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on June 8th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 9th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Philip Kass
·
Jun 9, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for considering the changes recommended by the reviewers, including the inclusion of data from the American robins.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 8, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Philip Kass
·
May 22, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for submitting your manuscript for publication. It has been reviewed by two experts in this field, and while both were supportive of publication, they have raised a number of points that will need to be addressed point-by-point in a rebuttal letter. If you disagree with the reviewers, please explain carefully why, and your revision may then need to undergo another round of review.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 20, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
•Abstract: The abstract seems too long. Please reduce. •Overall the writing seems a bit rambling at times, especially in the Discussion. Please stick to the pertinent information. For example, in the Discussion you write “Unfortunately, one field worker could not start all building surveys at sunrise…” This sentence is unnecessary. •Figure 1 is unnecessary.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
•This study was conducted at only one site, and the sample sizes (carcasses for scavenging study, carcasses found) are low. I still think useful information can be gained in such a situation, but the authors should add a paragraph to the Discussion that covers the limitation to inference caused by this type of local study. •Scavenger study: Given that only eight carcasses were used, I don’t think you obtained much useful information on potential loss to scavengers. I would delete this section and instead rely on the previous study (Hager et al. 2012).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
•Data analysis: I am bothered by the fact that you omitted American Robin from your analysis for no good biological reason. It seems that with its inclusion you didn’t get the result you expected or one that you could interpret, so you arbitrarily chose to remove it. If you can give a biological reason why you censured this species then that is fine, but it is not good statistical practice to omit data just because it doesn’t fit the expectation. •Along those lines, the Figures seem to show that without AMRO included, the reported effect of bird abundance being negatively correlated with BWC seems very weak. You give a P value, but no other statistics in the Results section. What is the strength of the relationship (R-squared, etc.)? This is an important point. •In Figure 4, there is a trendline (regression line) included. What does this mean? What is the quantitative relationship? Also, you seem to be inferring a linear relationship between # carcasses/survey and the mortality time frame, but the five categories for the mortality time frame aren’t equal. For example, sunset-sunrise must be a longer time period than the others, so how can this be comparable in a linear fashion?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I think there is some good information in this paper (especially the temporal aspects of BWC across the day), but there are several important issues with the analysis that should be remedied before the paper is further considered for publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Bird-window collisions in the summer breeding season (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.460v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
William Phipps ·
May 21, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors investigated bird-window collisions (BWCs) at a single study site over four breeding seasons and found that species abundance of bird carcasses from BWCs was negatively related to the abundance of breeders (based on point count estimates). The authors also found a difference in the age and migratory class of BWC carcasses depending on the stage of the breeding season, as well as a temporal pattern of BWC risk (with highest risk of BWC at night and in the morning). Overall this is a well written article that addresses a contemporary research topic of conservation importance. I do have some questions about the methods employed and the subsequent interpretation of the findings, which are detailed below and highlighted on the attached annotated pdf. 1.The Abstract is rather long, with too much detail relating to methodology. There is a danger of the main point of the article being lost. Please refer to highlighted text for sentences that could potentially be removed. 2.The introduction is well written and includes sufficient background information and reference to relevant studies. 3.Figures and tables are acceptable. I have one query about Figure 2B: The first line of the “Bird density and mortality” section of the results states that 9 species were documented in BWCs. Figure 2B shows 10 species. Additional explanation would also be useful on the Fig. 4 legend. 4.The “Scavenger study” aspect of the methods section could be moved below the “Point count surveys” section, or even incorporated into the “Carcass surveys” section as it is not the most important aspect of the article.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Although I am generally satisfied with the scavenger study and carcass survey methodologies, I have some concerns about the point count surveys and overall experimental design, detailed below. 1.I understand the logistical constraints of only being able to survey at one study site. However, it should perhaps be mentioned in the text that as the study is only conducted at one site then the findings should be considered as a first insight. 2.The 5 minute duration of the point count seems too short to allow for a sufficient proportion of the breeding birds in each habitat to be detected, particularly given that only one point count site was selected for each of the two dominant habitats. This raises the question of whether the abundance estimates are truly representative of the local avian community, particularly given the high variability in detectability between different bird species. 3.Related to point 2: Were the point count sites located in the same place in both habitats each time? If so then this was perhaps not a representative sample of the whole area of each habitat, and therefore the avian community within it. If not, more detail is required about how the point count sites were selected. 4.Is the maximum number of individuals counted of each species the most suitable measure of abundance? Perhaps the mean number of each species seen per point count would be more suitable? 5.While the subsequent analytical methods of the data are generally suitable, the results are heavily reliant on the abundance estimates derived from the point counts. Therefore, more detail is required about the point count survey design and methodology.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Linked to my queries about the experimental design, although the findings are valid based on the data that the authors describe, I would like further clarification about the derivation of the species abundance estimates from the point counts as they have an important bearing on the main results. Furthermore, the variation in detectability of the different species during point count surveys is not addressed in the methodology or discussed in the context of the findings. For example, I would assume that the smaller hummingbird species would have a much lower probability of detection than the sparrow species during point counts. Therefore, perhaps the abundance estimates from the point counts are too low for some of the species that were frequently encountered during BWC surveys. Although this is difficult to account for, it should be discussed as a limitation to the findings. The descriptive data regarding the ages and migratory status of the different species encountered during carcass surveys are interesting, valid and discussed fully, even without the comparison to the local abundance of breeding species. Overall the limitations presented by the described point count survey methodology, particularly related to the variation in detectability between the species, need to be discussed much more fully.
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Phipps W ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Bird-window collisions in the summer breeding season (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.460v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 8, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
