Review History for Barefoot running does not affect simple reaction time: an exploratory study [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Barefoot running does not affect simple reaction time: an exploratory study To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 16th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 10th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on March 16th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 22nd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mike Climstein
·
Mar 22, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
On behalf on the Reviewers I would like to congratulate the authors for addressing all of the concerns and edits raised in a very timely manner. Congratulations again on your manuscript and thank you for your contribution to PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 16, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mike Climstein
·
Mar 10, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript is well written, good scientific quality/rigor with an appropriate number of references to support it. The Background is will written and forms the basis for the research. Statistical analyses are thorough and appropriate. There are a small number of edits required, typographical error and references that must be corrected thru your citation/reference software. Additionally, your figures are of low quality (blurry) and will need to be improved. Additional specific comments are included on the attached documents. I congratulate the authors on the research completed.
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Mark DeBeliso ·
Mar 2, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1.Basic Reporting A.Clear and unambiguous, professional English used throughout. Meets criteria. B.Literature references, sufficient field background/context provided. Introduction provides sufficient connectivity to the current literature with adequate references. C.Professional article structure, figs, tables. Raw data shared. Resolution of Figures 1, 2, and 3 are fuzzy (noting this maybe an artifact of converting to a PDF file). Resolution of figure 4 is acceptable. Data is available and readable. D.Self-contained with relevant results to hypotheses. Yes.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
2.Experimental design A.Original primary research within Aims and Scope of the journal. Yes. B.Research question well defined, relevant & meaningful. It is stated how research fills an identified knowledge gap. Yes and does so in a compelling fashion. C.Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical & ethical standard. Study conducted with permission from Interdisciplinary Committee on Ethics in Human Research at the Memorial University of Newfoundland (ethics approval number: 20130246-HK). D.Methods described with sufficient detail & information to replicate. The authors did an outstanding job in this regard.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
3.Validity of the findings A.Impact and novelty not assessed. Negative/inconclusive results accepted. Meaningful replication encouraged where rationale & benefit to literature is clearly stated. Novelty was accessed, negative results were reported and related to existing literature. Replication was discussed within meaningful parameters. B.Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled. Statistical and data analysis are appropriate to answer the research question and supported the research design employed. C.Conclusion are well stated, linked to original research question & limited to supporting results. Yes. D.Speculation is welcome, but should be identified as such. I did not detect any unwarranted speculation.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
4.General comments I have been reviewing papers for over 15 year now. I must say, this is in the top 95% of well written papers I have come across! Cheers to the authors! With that said, there are some minor comments embedded in the manuscript via the tracker function. Most of the comments are typos and such. There are a couple of content comments that should be addressed and/or included prior to publication. 5.Confidential notes to the editor See tracker comments embedded in manuscript. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
DeBeliso M ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Barefoot running does not affect simple reaction time: an exploratory study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4605v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 9, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This study was very well written and thorough. Literature review was complete and provided strong basis for the study and sound explanation of results. Figures 1, 2, and 3 seemed a bit blurred but content was relevant.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question was clearly articulated. The research design was especially strong, especially in light of controlling for confounding variables. The methods were very well detailed. The only potential downsides were the small subject number but as an exploratory study, this was explained. Also, only males were used and no explanation was provided as to why the subject population was limited to one gender (Line 125). Additional justification would be appropriate here.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results were well presented and the subsequent discussion was very sound. The discussion was well referenced and clear. This was a strong suit of the paper.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This was a very well designed and well written study. It would be good to expand and include females, if possible but overall this was a strong paper. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Barefoot running does not affect simple reaction time: an exploratory study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4605v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 16, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
