Review History for Automated analysis of invadopodia dynamics in live cells [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Automated analysis of invadopodia dynamics in live cells To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 1st, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 14th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on June 3rd, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 9th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tomas Perez-Acle
·
Jun 9, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks a lot for making a compelling effort to address reviewers comments and corrections. I personally consider that this paper exposes an interesting methodology to both detect and characterise invadopodia dynamics in cancer cells. Therefore, it should be of broad interest to PeerJ readers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 3, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tomas Perez-Acle
·
Apr 14, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This is a well written and very interesting work on a topic not usually covered by using pattern matching and machine learning approaches. However, to be accepted for publication at PeerJ, there are some concerns raised by the reviewers (see bellow) that should be carefully addressed.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 10, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall this is an excellent manuscript, well written and detailing a non-biased method much needed in the field. The sharing of the analysis software is a nice bonus as well. That said, I have two issues that should be addressed before publication: 1. While written as a methods manuscript, there are biologically-relevant results that have been generated. For instance, in Figure 2, the individual properties of single invadopodia are displayed, but the biological significance is not mentioned. How do the average invadopodia area, distance from the edge, etc in WM2664 cells compare to what has been reported in the field? Such mention would strengthen the validity of the automation. 2. Of greater concern is that all of the reported analysis has been conducted in the WM2664 line. While there is no doubt this line makes invadopodia, it is not a line common to the field. It would be of greater benefit and would increase the validation of the software if single invadopodia and whole-cell degradation analysis were conducted on one or two well characterized invadopodia-producing lines. Why not test the model on EGF-stimulated MTLn3 or MDA-MB-231 cells? Or with SCC61 cells, which spontaneously make invadopodia? Similar results using the author's software to what is published would better validate the model across different laboratories, which is a main goal of the study. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Automated analysis of invadopodia dynamics in live cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.462v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 14, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article reports an automated method to study and quantify invasdopodia in time lapse fluorrescence images. Overall it meets the professional standards required. The results section would be better placed after meterial and methods instead of after the introduction, to meet the journal style, but this is something I consider a minor change. Only a few small errors could be find in the writing: ECM in the introduction should be defined In the abstract section, the first senctence would look better split into two (Multiple cell types from specilized ......that are collectivelly referred to as invadosomes. Invadosomes are used by.....). the computational part (algorithm and paramter optimization) fits better in the methods section, even if as it is, the paper reads well.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
With respect to technical details, as with the writting, the article properly explains the methodology used. There are some technical details that would need better and more detailed explanation: It is no clear how the thresholds have been selected. Explicit separation between train and test data needs to be explained (train data to select the thresholds to then report performance on the test data). In classification problems the common approach for threshold selection is to select the breakeven point (Precission equal to Recal in a P-R curve). An important point is the the method described uses low magnification images (20x), but this is only mentioned in the discussion section
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See changes suggested in the Experimental Design comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall the paper meets quality standards required but there are some points that need better explanation and the text needs some re-ordering for a better understanding. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Automated analysis of invadopodia dynamics in live cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.462v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 1, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
