Review History for Distinctive courtship phenotype of the Vogelkop Superb Bird-of-Paradise Lophorina niedda Mayr, 1930 confirms new species status [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Distinctive courtship phenotype of the Vogelkop Superb Bird-of-Paradise Lophorina niedda Mayr, 1930 confirms new species status To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 16th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 10th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on March 20th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 25th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Scott Edwards
·
Mar 25, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for addressing all the reviewers comments and for acknowledging their help in improving the manuscript. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 20, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Scott Edwards
·
Mar 10, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviews are generally positive and with adequate revisions your paper should be acceptable.
label_author_1
Bruce Beehler ·
Feb 19, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a well-written paper, well documented, and well-argued, with an interesting subject.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The fieldwork done to support the hypothesis--that the Bird's Head population of the Superb Bird of Paradise should be treated as distinct is well-supported by the data and the argument.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I support the findings and think the paper achieves this objective as well. Some issues to consider during the revision: Beehler & Pratt (2016) highlighted the distinctness of the vocalization of the Bird's Head population of the Superb. This is the first published suggestion the population should possibly be considered distinct. On line 22 the paper states "western Bird's Head" when in fact the bird inhabits the eastern Bird's Head. The MS should be searched and "western Bird's head" should be corrected to eastern Bird's Head.
Cite this review as
Beehler BM ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Distinctive courtship phenotype of the Vogelkop Superb Bird-of-Paradise Lophorina niedda Mayr, 1930 confirms new species status (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4621v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 5, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this investigation, Scholes and Laman provide novel audiovisual data on the courtship phenotype of the Vogelkop Superb Bird-of Paradise Lophorina niedda, corroborating recent molecular phylogeographic results by Irestedt et al 2017, and leaving little doubt that this distinctive taxon merits full species recognition. Some avian systematists (myself included) felt that Irestedt et al 2017 were premature in elevating the Vogelkop Superb BOP to full species given their reliance on just ~900 bp of cyt b and limited geographic sampling in the Bird’s Head/Neck region of New Guinea, leaving open the possibility that niedda and superba lineages may not be reciprocally monophyletic. The distinctive courtship repertoire and vocalizations documented by Scholes and Laman confirms that L. niedda is also isolated from adjacent L. superba populations by its unique display elements and advertisement calls, strengthening the argument for species recognition of this taxon. In general, this study is well written with clear research aims outlined in the introduction, sound presentation of results and conclusions, and relevant literature citations. My primary concerns with this study center on the limited sample sizes that form the basis of behavioral analyses and the use of un-archived, copyright protected video data, that while viewable online, is not available in the raw formats needed for independent frame-by-frame behavioral analysis. I don’t think either of these issues should prevent the publication of this study, but the authors need to do a better job documenting their data sources and identifying the potential biases/limitations associated with small sample sizes, given that the stated secondary goal of this study is to establish a more thorough characterization of courtship phenotype in the Lophorina species complex for future comparative study. For example, telling the reader to just do a search for L. superba in the ML archive (Lines 132-134) doesn’t pass muster in terms of documenting which “behavioral specimens” were used to form the basis of analysis and description of specific display characters. I provide several recommendations herein that will help mitigate these issues and make this study a more useful contribution for future comparative analyses. Introduction Lines 63-68: It would be useful to mention the environmental display context (horizontal tree fall in the understory) somewhere in this paragraph so that the reader doesn’t have to wait for it in the results/discussion. Materials and Methods Line 117: A table or appendix listing the ML catalog #’s of the 30 practice displays and 14 displays to females is needed to document and summarize which clips form the basis of analysis. The table should include taxon name, ML # or privately held archive title, locality (lat,long), date filmed, and original source (videographer or audio recordist). A column for which display activity/element the clip illustrates along with time code notes would be useful. It should also be noted if the same individual is featured in multiple clips, as it looks like just three males (2 niedda and 1 superba) form the majority of the analyses.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Results The following ML #’s need be double checked, as they do not correspond to Lophorina specimens. I presume these should be 458000-458003? Line 197: ML48000 Wrong taxon. Line 227: ML48002 Wrong taxon. Line 228: ML48003 Wrong taxon. Lines 366-370: In general, I find the descriptions of the displays (Advertisement, Horizontal, Pointing, and Cape Presentation) and associated figures sufficiently clear and detailed to diagnose the primary differences between niedda and superba, but I feel the differences in tempo of the “foot stomping” element during the Cape Presentation display may deserve a bit more attention, as this aspect of the niedda display really struck me as being distinct from all other L. superba and L. minor displays that I have observed previously. The stomping in niedda seems to be faster and more pronounced in the absence of the superba bounce. Perhaps the authors could provide some hard numbers and give rates for the cadence of these elements, given they may well vary among local sky-island populations and be informative in diagnosing taxa. Discussion Lines 442-477: This section summarizes the key differences in display elements nicely and provides a well-reasoned argument for full species recognition of L. niedda. That being said, a statement at the end of this section is needed highlighting the caveats of basing these analyses on limited sample sizes and relying heavily on a single individual (superba) from a small outlying sky-island population in the Adelbert Mountains and just two individuals (niedda) from the Arfaks. The Vogelkop is a composite terrain with montane bird populations often exhibiting differences between the Tamarau and Arfak ranges. As such, the authors should identify these limitations and use them as a call for further exploration beyond just the easily accessible Arfak ranges. Conclusions Line 509-514: The high level of endemism in BOPs of the Vogelkop suggests to me that the entire regional Bird’s Head avifauna (as apposed to just the BOPs) merits additional systematic scrutiny, and stating as much would further strengthen the case for attention from the conservation community that this area of endemism deserves.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Distinctive courtship phenotype of the Vogelkop Superb Bird-of-Paradise Lophorina niedda Mayr, 1930 confirms new species status (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4621v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 16, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
