Review History for Surface display for metabolic engineering of industrially important acetic acid bacteria [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Surface display for metabolic engineering of industrially important acetic acid bacteria To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 21st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 15th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on March 24th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 27th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Robert Winkler
·
Mar 27, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You have adequately addressed all reviewers' comments. Good luck with the promotion of your interesting work! # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 24, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Robert Winkler
·
Mar 15, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewer agree that your work is of high quality and broad interest. Their (minor) comments should help to improve the presentation of your manuscript.
label_author_1
Nicholas Butzin ·
Mar 6, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In this manuscript, the authors provide convincing evidence with statistical support that their surface display system is sufficient in producing recombinant enzymes at the outer membrane of Gluconobacter oxydans. This is of particular interest in the field, because of the difficulties associated with engineering G. oxydans membranes to produce useful proteins that can directly interact with the surrounding environment. It is my opinion, this manuscript is acceptable for publication with a few minor changes, which are listed below. Minor concerns: Both lines 35-37 of abstract and lines 80-83 state (I paraphrase here) that the expression of extracytoplasmic enzymes is difficult in the inner membrane because the membrane is crowded with proteins. This statement underlines the importance of their work and why the development of a surface display system in Gluconobacter oxydans is a potential bioengineering solution. It would help their case to cite the “crowdedness of the membrane.” For example, see Guigas and Weiss 2016 Biochim Biophys Acta (PMID: 26724385). Line 198: Samples were incubated at 23 C for how long? Line 248: I would remove the word “significantly.” Although the t-test shows a clear difference, there is an apparent overlap between samples in Fig. 3, and this is reflected in their ANOVA analysis. Line 336: The same comment for line 248, remove “significantly.” Lines 416-418: Although it is not required for this manuscript, I am curious if the authors have tried adding more phosphate to the media and measured the growth. Does additional phosphate rescue the slowed growth they observed when producing PhoA? Figures 1-5 legends: It would be helpful if the units (deltaA405/hxOD600) for the phosphatase activity were included in the legend.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comment Cite this review as
Butzin N ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Surface display for metabolic engineering of industrially important acetic acid bacteria (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4626v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 15, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
There are minor comments to the writing, detailed in the general comments to the author section.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Some discussion might be required, see general comments section.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is an interesting piece of work where the authors make a proof of concept for surface display in an effort to potentiate the abilities of Gluconobacter oxydans as producer of industrial metabolites. The authors fuse a N-terminal of OprF from Pseudomonas aeruginosa to a alkaline phosphatase (PhoA) from E. coli under the control of strong and moderate promoters. The authors also assay the contribution of flexible and rigid linkers. They make supernatant phosphatase assays in E. coli and G. oxydans. Concluding that for G. oxydans the genetic construction that works better includes the use of the strong promoter and a short rigid linker fused to OprF and PhoA. I think the work could be of interest for the readers of the journal and recommend their publications, I just suggest the authors could attend the following points: 1.The abstract could be improved stating that for G. oxydans the strong promoter is better, and resuming how is the whole genetic construction that works better. 2.In the discussion section the authors could argue why the phosphatase activity in E. coli is superior than the best achieved in G. oxydans. 3.On line 114, there is repeated the word “in”. On lines 324-326 please revise the words promotor-promotors. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Surface display for metabolic engineering of industrially important acetic acid bacteria (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4626v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 21, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
