Review History for Development of a quantitative loop-mediated isothermal amplification assay for the field detection of Erysiphe necator [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Development of a quantitative loop-mediated isothermal amplification assay for the field detection of Erysiphe necator To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 14th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 3rd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on February 15th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 28th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jenny Renaut
·
Mar 28, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The comments have been addressed as suggested by the reviewers # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 26, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors have addressed many of my suggested changes and I recommend publication.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No further comments on experimental design.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I find their findings valid and worthy of publication.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This manuscript has addressed many of my comments in the original submission. I recommend publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Development of a quantitative loop-mediated isothermal amplification assay for the field detection of Erysiphe necator (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4639v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 15, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jenny Renaut
·
Jan 3, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Reviewers have provided comments that you are requested to revise. I would particularly emphasize the optimization of the DNA extraction protocol and the comparison with other methods. Please see below.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 12, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
It is not clear how the samples are treated in the field (for testing in the LAMP assay). If DNA extraction, i.e., spore disruption, needs lab equipment, doesn’t that defeat the purpose? This is not explained well; the M&M section only refers to the DNA isolation in a lab setting. The authors state that the LAMP reaction in this study is modified from a previously described report (Thiessen et al Plant Pathol 2016, 65,238-249), some of there parameters of the LAMP of the two systems is different, did the authors assess the optimization of the LAMP protocol? The authors state that the reason for developing this protocol has something to do with a need for detection of Erysiphe necator to combat the disease by monitoring the inoculum. However, the authors didn't provide a solution for the detction of E. necator at early stage of infection or in grape plants that develop powdery mildew symptoms. Will early detection provided by the proposed protocol allow more rapid screens for resistance? Will it enable the timely spraying of fungicide?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a fairly well-written manuscript that presents useful information, however, there is not a good justification for the work which essentially represents the development of a LAMP detection systme that feasible for monitoring Erysiphe necator in its infection cycles thus guiding fungicide spraying. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Development of a quantitative loop-mediated isothermal amplification assay for the field detection of Erysiphe necator (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4639v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 20, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The basic reporting of this manuscript is appropriate, I especially like the supplemental dataset that was applied.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The experimental design is appropriate, I think involving growers in this applied technology is really a great validation of the technology.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The findings are valid and this publication should have an impact by involving the end user. I feel the data is robust.
Comments for the author
Review of PeerJ manuscript 21733v1 This manuscript titled “Development of a quantitative loop-mediated isothermal amplification assay for the field detection of Erysiphe necator” looks novel diagnostic tools for GPM. The manuscript is interesting an appropriate for PeerJ and is very well written, however, I have some comments I wish the author would consider prior to publication. General Comments: 1) My biggest comment on this manuscript is the lack of DNA concentration, most researchers working with this technology will not be able to count conidia and it would be helpful to have an actual DNA concentration (either using Qbit or Nanodrop). I think it would be helpful to others that want to utilize this approach to detect/quantify E. nector. This could also be added to a footnote in Figure 1. It doesn’t need to be extensive, I would just like to know how much DNA is in 1,000 spores (I realize this is a complicated system because of the possible contamination with host DNA). I would add this to the results section also (around line 183, as a bonus it might make this section a bit longer). 2) Please discuss other isothermal approaches in the Discussion, this section of the manuscript is pretty short. Discussions of Helicase Dependent Amplification (HDA) and Recombinase Polymerase Amplification (RPA) would be helpful since they seem to be the “competing technologies” in the area. Why is the LAMP approach the most appropriate/easy to use? Is it cheaper? Better machines etc. I would add this to around 3) Lines 102-108: Can you please place primer/probe sequences into a Table, it is really difficult when working with diagnostic papers if they are in text due to formatting problems. I think many researchers will be interested in the FRET based LAMP probe you used and how it was designed in a visual format. 4) Line 110: I am not sure if CT is really appropriate, I found LAMP literature in reviewing this that just used “Reaction time (minutes)”. I feel like this term CT may be used incorrectly throughout the literature, it really isn’t a cycle, but I agree it is a threshold. 5) Table 1: Spell out “Laboratory” for L and “Grower” for G in the table itself. I realize it is in the caption, but I ran to this table first, then I had to hunt for it a bit. 6) Figure 1: Can you provide a line for this figure and potentially some error/std deviation bars? 7) Figure 2: Is CT value the appropriate name since it isn’t really a “cycle” Other isothermal literature actually counts the minutes for amplification. 8) Figure 3: Is there anyway to log transform this data? the LAMP and qPCR appear pretty different in this figure but I wonder if it is one particular sample/possible contamination? (I have heard it can be a problem with this technology). I suggest at 7/16 for Part A and 5/27 for Part B that you provide the application for those specific samples in the text to highlight the inconsistency a bit more in the text (around line 197). 9) Line 240: Some of this would be better talked about in the discussion section in discussing the optimization of temperature. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Development of a quantitative loop-mediated isothermal amplification assay for the field detection of Erysiphe necator (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4639v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 14, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
