Review History for Drivers of macroinvertebrate community structure in unmodified streams [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Drivers of macroinvertebrate community structure in unmodified streams To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 1st, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 8th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on June 11th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 12th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dezene Huber
·
Jun 12, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your comprehensive response to the reviewers' comments. You have addressed their concerns adequately, and this MS is now acceptable for publication. Thank you for submitting your research to PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 11, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dezene Huber
·
May 8, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please note that the editor originally assigned to this MS had to step down, so I was assigned to continue the process. This is a well-written MS that describes substantial sampling on almost four dozen streams in New Zealand. The author also completed comprehensive analytical work on the data and the conclusions do not overreach the results. The reviewers have suggested minor and major revisions. I am generally quite conservative in split decisions, so will also recommend major revisions. However, the revisions suggested are seemingly on the minor side of major. Please carefully consider the various recommendations and complete, or rebut, them as you see fit. I look forward to reading the author's revised MS and rebuttal. Thanks for submitting this work to PeerJ.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 7, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article reports on uni and multivariate explanations for macroinverebrate diversity patterns in 47 near-natural streams in NZ. The reporing is basically ok, except more details should be present in the methods-- For example, stream width is not mentioned but comprises two full paragrpahs in the discussion. The author should probably note the table (table 1) of metrics etc in the methods. The author stresses the limited variability of the streams selected, but they actual comprise a high degree of variability-- I would highlight this instead of downplaying it (variabiltiy among pristine sites)- I think this would actually make the paper more interesting.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
i like the basic idea presented in this study. My only real comment extends to the improtance of the 1 outlier in the dataset that seems to strongly influence all of the results. i think the author needs to rerun the analyses excluding this outlier and see if the results remain the same. I think there is a strong argument for not including this sample in the study. If northing changes, then a simple sentence stating this fact could be added and the comment disappears (for others reading the paper). lastly, as above- link the metric table in the methods to make sure readers are aware of all the information collected at each site.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The paper is concise and contains minimal speculation. maybe more precise statements concerning the regional vs local influences.. the subsidy-stress paragraph is interesting but the author needs to be careful to keep the 'pristine' side of he story clear and not get muddled with anthrogenic stress. basically, a good read in my opinion--
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Other than the analysis issue stated above, i generally liked the idea being tested in this paper. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Drivers of macroinvertebrate community structure in unmodified streams (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.465v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Svein Jakob Saltveit ·
May 5, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
When conducting research in polluted rivers, and when evaluating or grading the level of pollution in accordance to a.o. the Europen Water Framework Directive simple metrics are commonly used. Studies in pristine rivers/streams, evaluating the importance natural environmental variation assessing the impact of stressors on stream macroinvertebrate communities become important. However, I lack a description on how this can be done. As said in the conclusions; ”Moreover, given the importance of canopy cover presence in driving these communities, as well as its potential to mask the effects of anthropogenic stressors, it is crucial to account for this variable in assessment programs”. A topic for a future paper? This is a valuable contribution, also well written. My only objection, but I think an important one, to this study is the lack of an evaluation fish and invertebrate predator might have on the benthic invertebrate fauna composition. Under Material and Methods, Study sites, there is no mentioning of fish. If fish are present at the sites the species need to be mentioned, also their main foraging strategy. It is important to have that information, because benthic feeding fish can in some cases control the density and composition of benthic invertebrates. Large sized invertebrate predators might also have a similar effect. This unlike drift feeders, like brown trout or salmon, were studies have revealed that they play no important structural role. So, please include fish in study site, a table?, and also make some comments on possible effects from fish if or when present at these sites. If no fish, it need to be mentioned! Line 196: Please indicate the meaning of “taxonomically rich” i.e. genius, species; also the meaning of “35 caddiesflies” ?, 22 true flies and so on. Is it no. of individuals or no. of species? Also, “I” is in my opinion used to often in the context of this paper. A clear expression of this usage is seen when reading from line 89 to line 97. So please, rewrite some (most) of the sentences using “I”.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
This is a valuable contribution, also well written, when evaluating or grading the level of pollution in rivers and streams. However, there is a lack in how the findings, i.e. the importance natural environmental variation as stressors on stream macroinvertebrate communities can be used when. assessing the effects of anthropogenic stressors. it is crucial to account for this variable in assessment programs”. A topic for a future paper?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
See above Cite this review as
Saltveit SJ ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Drivers of macroinvertebrate community structure in unmodified streams (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.465v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 1, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
