Review History for Behavior and biocompatibility of rabbit bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells with bacterial cellulose membrane [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Behavior and biocompatibility of rabbit bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells with bacterial cellulose membrane To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 5th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 27th, 2017. The first revision was submitted on February 10th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on March 29th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 2nd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Thomas Ritter
·
Apr 2, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear author, Thank you for improving the manuscript. I am pleased to inform you that it is now accepted for publication in PeerJ Regards # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 29, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Thomas Ritter
·
Feb 17, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The authors have significantly improved the quality of the manuscript, however, some more changes may further improve the manuscript: in the response letter to the reviewers critiques, it not clear at many places what changes have been made to the manuscript. For example the reviewer suggested that citations should be added to the methods and the reply of the authors was "the suggestions were followed" but not giving more detail. I encourage the authors to resubmit a detailed point to point reply detailing the changes introduced in the revision and also giving the line/page number. The authors should try to combine some of the figures. In my opinion none on the figures merits stand alone status. Currently the authors have 12 figures, this should be significantly reduced.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 10, 2018
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Thomas Ritter
·
Oct 27, 2017
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please respond in detail to the comments of the two reviewers. Note that Reviewer 1 has provided an additional document
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 17, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Style of reporting is inconsistent. Language needs to be improved. e.g. 56 Researchers have been studying bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells, the cells 57 applicability in regenerative medicine and improving methodologies presented a greater 58 effectiveness (Dimarino, Caplan & Bonfield, 2013; Wei et al., 2013; Li et al., 2016). 59 The mesenchymal stem cells use appears promising in the regenerative medicine field. 60 On the other hands, these studies developed, 66 The tissue engineering comprises a promising multidisciplinary field that involves 67 materials development or devices capable of specific interactions with biological tissues (Langer 68 & Vacanti, 2016). The researches expansion in this area has accentuated the search for subsidies 69 to suport the stem cells biocompatibility in biopolymers to attend in vitro tissues develops to 70 replace injured areas. 71 In the last years 83 In tissue engineering the bacterial cellulose supported the researches interest because it is 84 an abundant biopolymer in nature with biodegradability and able to be synthesized by several 85 bacteria adding the low cost in its manufacture. The nanofibrils formed between 20-100nm. 86 Their which intertwine forming a network and allied to its molecular structure, giving its high 87 hydrophilicity. Many biomedical researches have 101 A one year old male New Zealand rabbit considered clinically healthy, was used for the 102 isolation procedure of BMMSC. A mouse Mus muscles was used as a peritoneal machophages 103 source. For the cellular viability determination trypan blue and subsequent graphical 104 representation in the growth curve were done. For the fibrolastoid colony forming units (CFU-F) 105 assay were used cells collected from the bone marrow cultured in petri dish in the sixth passage. 106 For the differentiation potential in mesenchymal lineages study were used the means of 107 chondrogenic and osteogenic inductionic. In the verification of BMMSC biointegration to BCM 108 confocal microscopy and Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) were used and to analyze the 109 BCM phagocytic capacity, toxicity and cytotoxicity were used peritoneal macrophages sowing the 164 concentration of 1 x 104 cells/mL in five six-well plates counting two wells every 24 hours in the. Recent references on in vivo studies using bacterial cellulose based scaffolds need to be included. The results are relevant to hypothesis
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Methods have been described in sufficient detail.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data on differentiation of the stem cells needs to be supported by atleast one more independent assay/technique
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Major inconsistencies are observed with reference to citing the references. Several typographic errors are observed. Improvement in the language of presentation of paper is suggested. Image quality (light microscopy images) need to be better. An annotated PDF is being provided. Most of the suggested corrections have been marked. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Behavior and biocompatibility of rabbit bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells with bacterial cellulose membrane (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4656v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 24, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper would be significantly improved by careful editing of the English language and grammer. It is hard to understand in places. Some phrases are misleading (eg homogenised instead of mixed, peal instead of passage in differentiation instead of undifferentiated-line 269). There are also typographical errors which should be fixed The way the paper is structured leaves me unclear about the author’s aims. The initial focus is on the isolation of rabbit-derived bone marrow stromal cells, these are then cultured on a bacterial cellulosic membrane. The paper then switches to some characterisation of the membrane. It might be clearer to describe the membrane properties then to present the cell isolation data then to assess the cell and membrane combination. In the discussion light and shading are included as physical conditions which influence mammalian cell culture, (lines 341 and 343) can the authors support this with references? I don’t believe this to be a factor for stromal cell culture. The references cited are very heavily biased towards the last 4-5 years. The methods section should include citations to relevant papers, particularly around the cell isolation and characterisation used. Some figures are not very clear. In figure 4 it is hard to see any cells. Can the stated magnification for figures 8 C and D be checked?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The aims and objectives of the work could be more clearly stated in the introduction. Citations should be added to the methods. The experimental methods are not clear in several places -Was only 1 rabbit used to isolate MSCs? How reproducible was the cell isolation and characterisation-including the behaviour of the cells on the bacterial cellulosic membrane? -Was the chondrogenesis assay conducted on a monolayer of cells? (Normally these assays are done in a pellet or micromass culture). Can the authors comment on which protocol was used and cite the appropriate paper? -At what stage was the CFU-F assay performed? On cells directly isolated from marrow or after the MSCs had been in culture for some time? If the former do the authors have data on the number of CFUFs isolated as a function of the number of cells plated? -Can the detail about the number of peritoneal macrophages added to the bacterial cellulosic membrane be added? -How was the BCM isolated and prepared? How were MSCs seeded onto this?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data are presented showing isolation of MSCs from rabbit marrow. This seems to be from 1 animal. How reproducible is this work-in particular in relation to the behaviour of the cells on BCM? Chondrogenesis data are shown based on what appears to be a monolayer assay which is unconventional. The staining shown is not of high quality-the sample appears to have peeled and folded onto itself. What do the authors mean by “cytoplasmic integration” in line 287? There is a confusing jump in the data from rabbit MSCs on BCM to characterisation of BCM which should be better explained in the results. Figure 9 shows that the BCM causes a significant increase in macrophage activity- what does this mean? Some explanation would be helpful. The authors describe the levels of NO production as non-cytotoxic (line 310) can they put this into context? Part of the discussion is a validation of the rabbit MSCs by comparison to definitions of MSCs from different groups, the authors should compare their cells to others who have isolated MSCs from rabbit bone marrow. There are publications from over a decade ago which isolated these cells.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Behavior and biocompatibility of rabbit bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells with bacterial cellulose membrane (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4656v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 5, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
