Review History for Rare patterns of dorsal puncture in Pterostichus oblongopunctatus (Coleoptera: Carabidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Rare patterns of dorsal puncture in Pterostichus oblongopunctatus (Coleoptera: Carabidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 7th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 28th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on March 28th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 2nd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ilaria Negri
·
Apr 2, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I think that the manuscript is now ready to be published. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 28, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ilaria Negri
·
Feb 28, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Radomir, I thank you very much for you contribution that needs a few minor revisions prior to publication. Please see the appended Reviewer reports.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 25, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The English language in the article corresponds to all requirements to international publications. The style of the article is clear and concise. The literature sources are appropriate and recent, include most publications on the studied species of ground beetles. Structure conforms to PeerJ standards, corresponds to the standards of entomological experimental publications. The figures are of good quality, contrasting, organized in accordance with the norms of international publications.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The original research is based on extensive collections of one species of ground beetles. The study is in the scope of our Journal. The studied issue is relevant and is discussed in many articles, and is studied partly for the studied species of ground beetles; therefore the reviewed article is of great value. The study corresponds to all ethic standards; the invertebrates were collected with minimal negative impact on the nature ecosystems. The selection is sufficient for formulating the presented conclusions. The method of collecting of the ground beetles adequately reflects the structure of the natural populations of P. oblongopunctatus. The study was financed by the General Directorate of the State Forests, which suggests that the field work was conducted in accordance with the required permissions. The field and laboratory methods were appropriate, and the data on frequency are grouped in the Table. The frequency of the studies was sufficient.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Rational replication is accepted. The data are analyzed correctly using Chi-square-tests and Mann-Whitney U-test. Data are robust. The data in the table are clear, detailed, and acknowledge the conclusions. Conclusions are well stated and based on the actual results. The text has no speculations. The hypotheses and theories in the discussion are substantiated, and the required links to the sources are provided. The article is organized correctly and practically has no typing errors or inaccuracies. The study makes a good impression and can be recommended for publication.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Rare patterns of dorsal puncture in Pterostichus oblongopunctatus (Coleoptera: Carabidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4657v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Andrey Matalin ·
Feb 28, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I think, the papers of V.M. Emetz, 1984a (Zoologicheskii Zhurnal, 1984, Vol.63, No.2, P.218-221), and 1984b (Ecologia, 1984, No.5, P.85-88) could be discussed within this study too.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I think lines 114-120 of the chapter “Statistical methods” can be deleted, because the numbers of damaged specimens are few. Thus, in the Table 1 the information about damaged specimens as well as about specimens with unclear sex can be deleted as well. In lines 154-155 of the chapter “Results” indicated “Altogether, 1071 specimens (346 individuals in 1014, 417 in 1015, and 308 in 1016) of Pterostichus oblongopunctatus were analysed”. However, according to Table 1 the numbers of specimens is not the same: total – 1057; 2014 – 343; 2015 – 413; 2016 – 302. Why? Please check the numbers of the specimens. In lines 215-217 of the chapter “Discussion” indicated “The result indicating that individuals with unusual puncture patterns had more pits in general, even in the third interval of the elytra, supports the hypothesis that those patterns are related to the moisture conditions during the period of larval development”. But in the MS the information about correlation of the numbers of elytral pits and the moisture conditions during the period of larval development is not presented. In lines 224-227 of the chapter “Discussion” indicated “A higher number of abdominal setae due to a higher number of pits in the fifth and seventh intervals in females compared to males, as shown in our study, may be explained by the role of this sex in the reproductive behaviour”. However, the information about numbers of abdominal setae in the specimens with usual and unusual numbers of elytral pits as well as the correlation between numbers of abdominal setae and numbers of elytral pits is not presented in the chapter “Results”. The MS is clearly written in good language. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Matalin A ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Rare patterns of dorsal puncture in Pterostichus oblongopunctatus (Coleoptera: Carabidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4657v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 7, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
