Review History for Genome comparison implies the role of Wsm2 in membrane trafficking and protein degradation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Genome comparison implies the role of Wsm2 in membrane trafficking and protein degradation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 9th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 27th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 9th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 9th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Apr 9, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you very much for addressing all the critical issues raised by the reviewers and for revision of the manuscript. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Sheila McCormick, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 9, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Mar 27, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Although both reviewers emphasized that your manuscript is interesting and important, they also found some minor issues that need to be addressed. Therefore, I am encouraging you to address these critiques and to revise manuscript accordingly.
label_author_1
Xing Jing ·
Mar 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Comments: 1. a couple of typos in the manuscript: a) Page 14, line 266, "is more likely happened" change to "is more likely to happen". b) Page 15, line 329, "likelihood" change to "likely". c) Page 17, line 373, "strict" change to "strictly". 2. Question: Table 1 The data are very clean and significant. Do the authors have any clue why Bd21-3 (Brachypodium) exhibited some resistance to WSMV, but not zero under either of the 2 temperatures?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Cite this review as
Jing X ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Genome comparison implies the role of Wsm2 in membrane trafficking and protein degradation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4678v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 27, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this manuscript, the authors study the sequence and biological function of Wsm2, a gene of wheat genome goes against the wheat streak mosaic virus (WSMV). Total 93 promising orthologous groups are reported in wheat genome to further study Wsm2 ancestor locus. In addition, the protein degeneration and/or membrane trafficking, resulting from proteins encoded by Wsm2, is proposed to potentially contribute to the resistance of wheat with Wsm2 gene to wheat streak mosaic virus. The author gains a huge amount of experiment data with years of field work as well as a comprehensive genetic analysis. In addition, the manuscript is clearly written and conclusions are reasonably drawn according to experiment data. Yet, there are several issues in this manuscript such as context arrangement and figure legend, which can cause the confusion and misinterpretation. Overall, the manuscript is publishable after these issues is fixed properly. Issues 1.In the first section of result, the authors choose Brachypodium to study the acquired resistance of wheat to WSMV by natural mutation. Brachypodium is reported as a good model for genome study of wheat, however, few evidences are provided to connect the Brachypodium with natural mutation of wheat, which weakens the rationale to choose Brachypodium. Unless more convincing evidences are given, this part should be either moved to supplement part or deleted since it is weakly relevant to the main topic of the manuscript. 2.In the third section of result, it is pointless to include Brachypodium for identification of possible Wsm2 location in wheat since Brachypodium is lack of WSMV resistance as reported by author themselves in the manuscript. 3.In line 71-73, the data of wheat reduction caused by WSMV infection is from a study in 1980s, which is somewhat outdated. The authors need provide up-to-date data about the effect of WSMV. 4.The paragraph in line 311-319, should be moved into discussion part since it mainly focus in comparison between their results and others, which is the purpose of discussion. 5.The content after “For example” in conclusion section should be deleted since it talks about the following work in future instead of draws conclusion according to experimental data. 6.In the figure legend of table, the sample size of each condition should be clearly specified.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Genome comparison implies the role of Wsm2 in membrane trafficking and protein degradation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4678v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 9, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
