Review History for Palmitic acid induces neurotoxicity and gliatoxicity in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma and T98G human glioblastoma cells [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Palmitic acid induces neurotoxicity and gliatoxicity in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma and T98G human glioblastoma cells To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 1st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 3rd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 10th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 12th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Natalia Zhukova
·
Apr 12, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Yee-How Say, Thank you for submitting the revised version of your manuscript to PeerJ. In the revised version the authors took into consideration all comments and remarks. I recommend to accept your manuscript for publication in PeerJ. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 10, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Natalia Zhukova
·
Apr 3, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Yee-How Say, Thank you for submitting your paper to PeerJ. It now been reviewed and I have the following recommendations in line with the reviewers' reports. The study contributes to our growing knowledge of the negative influence of high-fat diet on the CNS. The conclusion that palmitic acid induces apoptosis by increasing oxidative stress in neurons and astrocytes is interesting. The paper, while interesting, should be modified to address several points prior to publication. The reviewers provided detailed comments, and I ask that you consider these carefully and correct numerous errors when revising the manuscript. I would like to pay attention to the following comments: One of the problems is the experimental design. You should describe the experiments in details and give reasons for choosing the treatment with 300 µM PA, OA or LA for 24 for ORO staining as well as to justify the choice of treatment time as 48 h for apoptosis detection. Additionally, you should clarify the conditions of cytometrical analysis and give the additional information on minimal quantity of analysed events in samples and the order of analysis of obtained cytometrical data. The reviewer recommends you discussed the increasing viability of cells at low concentrations of PA, OA and LA. What can be molecular mechanisms of this phenomenon? It may be interesting. The resolution of the Figure 3 (ORO staining of SH-SY5Y and T98G after fatty acid treatments) in insufficient, it should be improved. English should be improved upon before acceptance. I look forward to receiving your revision.
label_author_1
Andrey Boroda ·
Mar 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The structure is acceptable, but the titles of some paragraphs and figures demand re-considering and re-naming. The manuscript contains too many unreasonable abbreviations. Cytometrical data (FCS files) are not presented in Raw data.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Cytometrical analysis needs elucidation: additional information on minimal quantity of analysed events in samples and the order of analysis of obtained cytometrical data.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Microscopic photos and cytometrical figures demand improvement.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript is interesting and necessary for the biomedical science in general, but needs major revision for improvement. The results obtained are believable, important and well discussed, but need some corrections in their presenting. Please, find my comments in attached PDF file. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Boroda A ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Palmitic acid induces neurotoxicity and gliatoxicity in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma and T98G human glioblastoma cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4696v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 2, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript contains many typographical, punctuation and other errors. Also English is not clear, unambiguous and professional throughout the manuscript. Please be more conscientious. Some examples of those errors: 1.When authors use abbreviation for the first time, they must give the full term (in line 27 for CNS, in line 85 for BMI). 2.Scale bars are absent in Figure 2. Moreover, it seems that pictures of T98G untreated and 300 µM PA treated cells were made with using different magnification. 3.Full stop is absent in line 474 in the end of sentence. 4.In Figure 1 is not clear which one of the diagrams describe 24 h and 48 h of treatment. 5.In some points authors give unnecessary information (in line 231it is enough to write just final concentration). 6.In Figure 4 E what does percentage of cells means? It is not clear from diagram.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Research question of this manuscript is well defined and relevant, but methods described with sufficient detail not in all cases. Also there are some concerns on experimental design. Why authors chose treatment for 48 h for apoptosis detection? To my knowledge is too long. Besides, did they do all necessary controls for these experiments? Also it is not clear why authors chose 300 µM treatment with 300 µM PA, OA or LA for 24 for ORO staining. Authors did not give concentration of paraformaldehyde (Line 195) and model of camera. Please check is duration of fixation that you give is real (it seems too long). Authors did not include Western blot for <U+03B3>-synuclein protein expression after establishment of stable cells in the manuscript, but I expect to see it.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data is mostly robust and statistically sound, but appropriate controls for apoptosis detection are absent. Authors did not discussed in details why PA, OA and LA can increase viability of cells. What can be molecular mechanisms of this?
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Palmitic acid induces neurotoxicity and gliatoxicity in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma and T98G human glioblastoma cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4696v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 1, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
