Review History for Influence and reliability of lower-limb arterial occlusion pressure at different body positions [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Influence and reliability of lower-limb arterial occlusion pressure at different body positions To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 14th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 12th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 5th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 12th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Stewart Walsh
·
Apr 12, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Many thanks for addressing the previous comments. The article is now acceptable. One minor issue in the abstract, background section, line 4 'may influence of level of...' delete 1st 'of' - this should be fixed while in production,
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 5, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Stewart Walsh
·
Mar 12, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The article is clear and well-written. Reviewer 1 suggests removing the prediction equations. I agree. If you feel they should remain, the statistical section should be expanded to include the criteria for selecting univariate predictors for inclusion in the model and criteria used to select variables to add or drop at each step of the model. However, with only 50 participants, the statistical power is very low and the model is of doubtful generalizability. It would be better to remove it. The participants were randomly assigned to measurements in various orders...how was the randomisation conducted? The participants were young...tourniquet occlusion in clinical practice is often used in much older patients. Should be mentioned as a limitation. There are a few minor points: Abstract Line 6‘may influence THE level of occlusion…’ Line 10 ‘5 minUTES…’ Material and methods Line 75: 24 hOURS Line 83: participants’ not participant’s Line 111: ‘or’ instead of ‘nor’ Discussion Line 186: ‘in A seated…’ Line 230: should ‘venous’ be ‘arterial’?
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 9, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
See general comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
See general comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See general comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors present data on a topic that is of great methodological importance. This study is straight forward and will be of interest to those implementing blood flow restriction in research and/or clinical settings. I do, however, have comments that I think will improve the manuscript. My major criticism is there “prediction” equations. I recommend removing them from the manuscript as the important data lies in the change in position. I believe the regression model assumes that the data is normally distributed, which they state it is not. More importantly, however, is that I do not think the model is stable with such a small sample size. General rules of thumb suggest around 40 people per predictor. You have multiple predictors but only have 50 individuals. Specific comments below: Line 51: systolic blood pressure is only a meaningful predictor in the upper body, but the size of the limb is always explaining more variance than any other predictor. This should be corrected. Line 85: what was the size of the blood pressure cuff? Line 88: extra period at the end of this sentences Line 89: it seems more appropriate to just say “skinfold thickness” given that’s what you’re actually measuring. Line 111: what is the confidence interval around that 0.08? Line 154: might be useful to add in the variability of the differences into the results Line 190-203: I feel like this is pretty redundant and could probably be cut down quite a bit Line 213-214: having references after each one of those suggests that those references demonstrates ischemic reperfusion injury, nerve injury, etc. Perhaps just state that those things have been speculated in those papers? Line 217: I think the Jessee and Mattocks paper measured discomfort…not pain per se Line 220: Martin Hernandez reference would seemingly suggest that volume is only important to a point…not sure that reference really corroborates that sentence completely…consider revising Line 224: what is a light load? Line 229: should this say “in a seated…” Line 231: could someone argue that there is only minimal pressure needed to restrict venous return? I see an argument for manipulating arterial in flow and how that could impact metabolites…but I think this should be made a bit more clear here Line 225: might be useful to discuss the Ingram et al. investigation…it seems as though that is related to reliability of AOP…and along those lines…how do you separate measurement error from biological variability of blood pressure? https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28131507 Line 277: I would remove this entire section Line 303: how do we know this measurement is “accurate” based on this current study? Line 308: how much does this measurement actually change? Maybe you only need to measure it once and use that pressure for all subsequent visits? Would it have to change a decent amount before it meaningfully impacted applied pressure? Line 317: is there a need to include the company name in the conclusion? Here and throughout the manuscript (outside of the methods)…it might be better to describe it without promoting a product. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Influence and reliability of lower-limb arterial occlusion pressure at different body positions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4697v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 10, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is well written and easy to follow.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
If the cuff was placed at the most proximal part of the leg, why was leg circumference and fat thickness measured at the midway point of the leg? Was this measure located under the cuff for most individuals?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I applaud the authors for repeating the 3 measures on a second visit, but I question why the same order that was performed in visit one was not replicated in visit 2. If there is indeed an order effect, then you have added additional error above biological variability/measurement error that can simply be attributed to changing the order. I applaud the authors for repeating the 3 measures on a second visit, but I question why the same order that was performed in visit one was not replicated in visit 2. If there is indeed an order effect, then you have added additional error above biological variability/measurement error that can simply be attributed to changing the order. To generate prediction equations, what variables were entered into the model in the first place? You mention that only those that were significant predictors were included in the prediction equation, but which were initially entered? This information should be added. In the reliability section the only comparison that should be made here is the AOP measured with the Delfi cuff and the AOP measured with the dopplar ultrasound. A comparison of AOP with the Delfi cuff to FMD or MBV measured using ultrasound is not appropriate as these are much more difficult measures and thus will have greater error. If the Delfi cuff could measure FMD or MBV this would be a fair comparison, but only studies using techniques to measure AOP should be compared here. After all, it would presumably be much easier to repeatedly detect the cessation of blood flow than to repeatedly quantify the velocity of blood flow. Discussion Line 223: “However, current literature suggests that light-load BFRE training protocols benefit from higher occlusion pressures (80% vs 40%) (Lixandrão et al., 2015), which would support the importance of accurate AOP measurement for prescription of relative pressures.” Another study found no differences between 40% and 90% but this study used 30% 1RM instead of 20% 1RM. Regardless, this study should also be mentioned if this previous study is mentioned https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/26137897/ .
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors compare the necessary occlusive pressure to cease blood flow in three different body positions. Overall, the manuscript is well written and straightforward. Comments are attached. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Influence and reliability of lower-limb arterial occlusion pressure at different body positions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4697v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 14, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
