Review History for Are lower levels of physical activity and self-rated fitness associated with higher levels of psychological distress in Croatian young adults? A cross-sectional study [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Are lower levels of physical activity and self-rated fitness associated with higher levels of psychological distress in Croatian young adults? A cross-sectional study To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 1st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 12th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on March 17th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 13th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Nora Nock
·
Apr 13, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been sufficiently revised and reviewers are satisfied with the corrections that have been made. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Stephen Macknik, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Dineshen Chuckravanen ·
Apr 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The text is clear and the English issues are addressed. The text is sufficiently well referenced. The raw data is clear and well described. The objective and hypothesis is clear.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This is a good research involving a population-based study on a very specific topic. The investigation was performed to a highly professional and ethical standard.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data is statistically sound and robust as well as the conclusion section answers the hypothesis question well.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
First of all, it is a pleasure to read this article built on a population-based study investigating the relationship between physical activity and fitness and psychological distress. Overall the text seem fine with clear objectives and clear conclusions as well as good presentation of statistical result in tabular forms. I thank the authors for the providing the raw data with clear variable names for each column of data. Cite this review as
Chuckravanen D ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Are lower levels of physical activity and self-rated fitness associated with higher levels of psychological distress in Croatian young adults? A cross-sectional study (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4700v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 17, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Nora Nock
·
Mar 12, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The manuscript provides important information but requires changes including revising the English writing. In addition, please note one reviewer has attached an annotated manuscript to their review that has the detailed comments. Please Provide a point by point response with the revised manuscript denoting how each issue was addressed.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is generally well written and good to read. Some observations were made directly into the file. There are some citations lacking and some parts of the Methods were not presented, which was pointed out in the text presenting Tables. Other problems, information and questions were indicated in the pdf.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Observational study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See the pdf.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Review needed. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Are lower levels of physical activity and self-rated fitness associated with higher levels of psychological distress in Croatian young adults? A cross-sectional study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4700v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Dineshen Chuckravanen ·
Mar 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The text should be revised throughout as there are some English Language issues. The text is sufficiently well referenced but there the authors should consider elaborating more on physical fitness and physical activity The raw data is clear and well described The objective and hypothesis is clear
Experimental design
label_ed_3
This is a good research involving a population-based study on a very specific topic. The investigation was performed to a highly professional and ethical standard There is room for improving the description of the methods used (for example the questionnaires...)
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data is statistically sound and robust The conclusion section answers the hypothesis question well.
Comments for the author
First of all, it is a pleasure to read this article built on a population-based study investigating the relationship between physical activity and fitness and psychological distress. The following points should be considered to make this research article more robust. 1. The English language used in this manuscript should be improved so as the readers can understand clearly your text. Some examples where language could be improved are lines 83 to 86; line 96, line 119 (65000 to 70000 students...), line 145 (...ranging from 0 to 24). The text should be thoroughly revised to check for grammatical errors such as line 260(possibility..) 2. There is a big chunk of repetition of the last sentence in discussion (lines 264 to 266) and conclusions (272 to 274)..Consider rather to elaborate this sentence further in discussion and explain more the ALPHA battery fitness objective method, how it is better than the previously used method(s). 3. Authors posited that there was no significant difference in line 132 but does not explain clearly differences among which factor(s)...same need to explain the statistics and which variable when they mentioned the two measures in line 164 to 165. 4. The authors should consider elaborating what is physical activity and physical fitness as well as psychological stress further in the text (introduction) and distinguish between physical activity and physical fitness. 5. Overall the text seem fine with clear objectives and clear conclusions as well as good presentation of statistical result in tabular forms. 6. I thank the authors for the providing the raw data with clear variable names for each column of data. Cite this review as
Chuckravanen D ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Are lower levels of physical activity and self-rated fitness associated with higher levels of psychological distress in Croatian young adults? A cross-sectional study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4700v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 1, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
