Review History for Is painting by elephants in zoos as enriching as we are led to believe? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Is painting by elephants in zoos as enriching as we are led to believe? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 19th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 11th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on June 15th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 16th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Giorgio Vallortigara
·
Jun 16, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I read your revised ms and response to reviewers and it seems to me that you have done an excellent job in revising the ms and have replied adequately to all comments of the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 15, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Giorgio Vallortigara
·
Jun 11, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please provide some comments or rebuttal on comments of Reviewer 2 concerning control group.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 30, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The extensive analysis of elephants’ abilities and the comprehensive background that authors discuss make the paper an interesting and enjoyable reading. The contents are clearly described, adequately referenced and I also appreciate the topic of investigation that is quite original. The results show that the activity of painting provides elephants with only little enrichment during their life in captivity, shedding some light onto the need to further investigate the conditions that may improve animals’ welfare in zoos and sanctuaries.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The observations are well conducted with appropriate dependent measures scored and analyzed. I only guess whether a further control could have been relevant, i.e., the recording of the painting activity in absence of the audience. Despite the elephants are described to look at the trainer or to stare at the canvas preferentially, I wonder whether the audience-less environment, controlling for sounds, smells and vibrations from occasional visitors, could have been a crucial condition to observe the effects of the activity per se since their social interactions are not limited to vision. This should be probably discussed in the revised version of the paper. Indeed, elephants may be “happy” of a brief painting practice gaining some enrichment. Being alone in doing so, they can anyway create art for fundraising and still can be visible to visitors by a camera recording and/or transmitting online the elephants’ activity in a separate environment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Although the authors are aware of the limitations of their study, which concerns 4 animals only, very different one from the other in amount of time spent in captivity and in time spent painting I wonder whether simple physiological measures of stress (i.e., heart rate for instance) could have been easily obtained, increasing the strength of the main findings. Also, I guess it would be worth reporting that another artistic activity (i.e., listening to music or playing an instrument) seems to be a more appropriate activity to enrich elephants' lives. The suggestion arises from evidence that elephants entertain spontaneously to music (Schachner et al., 2009) and if in the condition of playing instruments of appropriate dimensions they spontaneously initiate the activity of playing (as reported by the authors of the musical pieces composed for the Thai Elephant Orchestra).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I highly recommend to accept this paper not only because well conducted despite obvious difficulties, but also because it is important to put some limits through rigorous investigation to the activities that may represent a real condition of enrichment and activities that are instead purely human and produce humans' amusement only, but increase stress-like behaviors in animals. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Is painting by elephants in zoos as enriching as we are led to believe? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.471v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 10, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
It is unclear how the elephants were selected for the painting sessions. It is unclear how and when elephants could understand they were selected for painting. Authors observed the behaviour of four female elephants — why have they excluded males from their study? Would they expect a similar or a different behaviour? My major point concerns the lack of a control group composed of animals that undergo a control task. I think it could be interesting to compare the measures reported here with those obtained with animals employed in a control task. Further, do the Authors have an idea of the baseline level of stereotyped behaviours in elephants that do not paint? It would also be relevant to compare the measures of these different groups.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
P=0.056 is insignificant. Therefore, I suggest the Authors leave out this effect — or at least to not draw strong conclusions on the basis of such results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I have really appreciated the topic discussed in this article, but I strongly recommend a comparison of these results with those of animals that undergo a control task. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Is painting by elephants in zoos as enriching as we are led to believe? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.471v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 19, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
