Review History for IL-6 and TNF-a salivary levels according to the periodontal status in Portuguese pregnant women [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History IL-6 and TNF-a salivary levels according to the periodontal status in Portuguese pregnant women To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 21st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 26th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 15th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 16th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Fulvio D'Acquisto
·
Apr 16, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I can confirm that all the queries of the reviewers have been sufficiently addressed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 15, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Fulvio D'Acquisto
·
Mar 26, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please include more details of the experimental design as suggested by the reviewers and address the concerns they have raised.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
English used in the manuscript needs improvement. Long ambiguous sentences are used, which make it confusing to read. Literature references are sufficient. Professional article structure utilized. The results of the study are not sufficient to support the hypotheses.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Research is within the aims and scope of PeerJ. It is not clearly stated how the research question really fills the gap in the knowledge. The question that the authors are asking is whether changes in salivary il-6 and TNF alpha levels can be utilized for diagnosis of periodontal disease in pregnant women. Diagnosis of periodontal disease requires a periodontal probe and measurement of attachment loss around teeth. What the additional benefits are of a salivary test using inflammatory markers is not clearly stated. In the past several studies have looked at the salivary levels of inflammatory cytokines in patients with periodontal disease, yet to date there are no salivary tests available. This discrepancy needs to be clearly addressed in the manuscript. It is also not clear why the authors chose only these two cytokines. The level of investigation is not rigorous enough. For example, it is not clear at what point during the pregnancy, the saliva samples were collected. At least two to three specific time point based saliva collection and analysis during the course of pregnancy would be ideal. Because within the healthy group there could be natural changes in the inflammatory markers during the course of pregnancy. Also the authors are analyzing only two cytokines. An array of inflammatory markers are needed for more rigorous investigation. Methods are not described with detail. For example it is not clear if smokers were excluded from this study. Also the time point of saliva collection is not mentioned and the method of saliva collection is not explained in detail.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Although there might be a statistical difference in the levels of the cytokines between the healthy and periodontitis groups I am not sure if there is a clinical significance as the differences in cytokine levels are not even twice the normal levels. Statistical analysis is done by ANOVA. For clinical studies, it would be ideal to perform ODDS Ratio and Relative Risk analyses for more robust statistical outcomes. Conclusions stated do not support the original question based on the weak methodology and limited results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Good study but lacks rigorous investigation. More data collection points needed. More inflammatory cytokine profiling needed. Statistical analysis should include Specificity, Sensitivity, Odds Ratio and Relative Risk. English in the manuscript needs professional editing. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "IL-6 and TNF-a salivary levels according to the periodontal status in Portuguese pregnant women (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4710v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Ozlem Fentoglu ·
Mar 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The study entitled “IL-6 and TNF-a salivary levels according to the periodontal status in Portuguese pregnant women” is well designed, and has a robust hypothesis introducing the pathogenesis of the association between pregnancy and periodontal disease. It has been well known that interleukin 1-beta is also an important pro-inflammatory cytokine playing an important role in pregnancy, pregnancy outcomes or pathologies of pregnancy, and periodontal disease. Thus, the authors should also introduce that the role of IL-1 beta in periodontal disease and pregnancy. Just as, IL-1 beta is a precursor and cytokine for IL-6 and TNF-a.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
It is a well designed, and the relationship between hypothesis and results is well discussed. Because of the fact that this is a cross-sectional study, it should be stated as an important limitation of this study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The longitudinally studies suggesting the poor pregnancy outcomes (such as preterm birth, low birth weight, and preterm and low birth weight, etc ) and periodontal disease in the same population will also be helpful to clarify the effect of periodontal disease on pregnancy complications or poor pregnancy outcomes.. These statements should be added to the section of conlusion of the text for further consideration.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
1. The study entitled “IL-6 and TNF-a salivary levels according to the periodontal status in Portuguese pregnant women” is well designed, and has a robust hypothesis introducing the pathogenesis of the association between pregnancy and periodontal disease. 2. It has been well known that interleukin 1-beta is also an important pro-inflammatory cytokine playing an important role in pregnancy, pregnancy outcomes or pathologies of pregnancy, and periodontal disease. Thus, the authors should also introduce that the role of IL-1 beta in periodontal disease and pregnancy. Just as, IL-1 beta is a precursor and cytokine for IL-6 and TNF-a. 3. It is a well designed, and the relationship between hypothesis and results is well discussed. 4. Because of the fact that this is a cross-sectional study, it should be stated as an important limitation of this study. 5. The longitudinally studies suggesting the poor pregnancy outcomes (such as preterm birth, low birth weight, and preterm and low birth weight, etc ) and periodontal disease in the same population will also be helpful to clarify the effect of periodontal disease on pregnancy complications or poor pregnancy outcomes.. These statements should be added to the section of conlusion of the text for further consideration. Cite this review as
Fentoglu O ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "IL-6 and TNF-a salivary levels according to the periodontal status in Portuguese pregnant women (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4710v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 21, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
