Review History for Endophytic fungal communities associated with field-grown soybean roots and seeds in the Huang-Huai region of China [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Endophytic fungal communities associated with field-grown soybean roots and seeds in the Huang-Huai region of China To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 13th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 3rd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 15th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 16th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Paolo Giordani
·
Apr 16, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I think that in the current version of the manuscript all the reviewers' remarks have been successfully addressed. Therefore the ms is now suitable for publication in PeerJ. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Sheila McCormick, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 15, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Paolo Giordani
·
Apr 3, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I agree with Rev#2 that the Discussion section needs to be strengthened and this could be made e.g. by slightly restructuring Results and Discussion sections following the detailed suggestions of the reviewer.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript reports a straight forward study of fungal diversity in soybean roots. It is clear and unambiguous in describing the study and results. Background literature is sufficient. The figures are well made and clear. It is self contained.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is fine. This was a survey of fungi in roots and seeds. The authors do indicate how this work will contribute to further studies on use or role of endophytes in agriculture. The study seems well done to assess diversity of fungi in soybean. The described methods were adequate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
These data are robust and valid--and conclusions support by results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This study of diversity adds to our knowledge of diversity of fungal endophytes in plants. A next step would be to use the isolated endophytes to assess affects on soybean. This is really where this research would go in the future. This is a nice foundation. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Endophytic fungal communities associated with field-grown soybean roots and seeds in the Huang-Huai region of China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4713v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Xiao Yang ·
Mar 30, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This manuscript was generally well written. The study was well designed. Specifically, using both conventional (cultural isolation followed by conventional Sanger sequencing) and innovative (Illumina MiSeq sequencing using eDNA) to study fungal diversity is the best merit of this study. The results were properly analyzed. Comparisons among results obtained from three methods plus previous reports have important implications. Here are some comments in order to help the authors to further improve the manuscript. Abstract The Abstract reads fine, while I encourage the authors to further improve it. First, there are already many numbers in the Abstract, which is somehow confusing. Are the numbers “18” in line 22 and 23 necessary? Second, is “based on internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequencing” in line 23-24 necessary? Third, the sentence in line 25-26 is confusing and can be improved. Fourth, in line 27-29, although the analyses indicated the difference in population and diversity, it is confusing in stating “significantly different” after indicating “Fusarium……in EVERY sample”. Please improve the logical flow, for example, add “even though”, or “except for” before the “Fusarium in every sample” statement. Fifth, the statement in line 29 is not true. Phyllosphere fungal endophytes were not investigated in this study. Introduction The Introduction generally reads fine. To better serve the purpose of literature review and correlate with the later findings, I suggest the authors add literature reviews on the major fungal genera found in this study. Specifically, previous reports of Fusarium as endophytes should be reviewed, since it was the dominant genus found in this study. Line 70-77: T-RFLP and DGGE are not “new” or “emerging”. Materials and Methods Line 95: the authors may want to add a sentence indicating the popularity of the ZhongHuang 13 cultivar in the Huang-Huai region to justify this selection. Line 100: “in the field” or “in each field”? Line 124: “Amended” to replace “treated” Line 126: delete “kinds of”; replace “3 cities x 2” with “6” Line 130: delete “carefully” Line 133 to 141: shorten this section if the methods were the same as those in cited articles. Line 144: What method was used to quantify DNAs if “equal amounts of DNA…were mixed”? Line 153: Revise the section title to specify that this section was about sequencing and sequence analyses of the MiSeq or CI. Line 173-176: indicate where and how the diversity analyses and subsequent graphics plotting were conducted. Results The Results section is generally clean and well written. The findings are clearly reported. The figures are nicely plotted/made. Minor mistakes are still present. The major issue is that many discussions should be moved to the next section. Line 189: The term “ITS sequencing method” is misleading. ITS sequencing was also used in the CD-iso method following cultural isolation. The authors may want to find another way to describe these methods. Line 191-192: “…indicating that…..of low abundance” belongs to the Discussion. Please only report findings in the Results, while move all related discussions to the Discussion. Also, this statement of indication is contradictory to that in Line 270-272. Line 194-196: “Thus, …..” belongs to the Discussion. Line 199-200: “indicating……” belongs to the Discussion. Line 206-208: “These difference might……” belongs to the Discussion. Line 210-221: Please only report findings from this study. This whole section should be moved to the Discussion. Line 251-257: “These results suggested that……seed germination” and “further indicating that…..” should be moved to the Discussion. Please simply report the findings. Discussion Compared to the above sections, the Discussion section feels weak. It should be strengthened after moving many discussions in the Results to the Discussion. Line 266-274: The best merit of the methodology in this study was using a variety of isolation/identification methods. The results from different methods were well illustrated in the Results. However, they deserve better comparison and discussion here. There is a lot that can and should be discussed. For example, obtaining fungal cultures provides fundamental materials for studying the biological and ecological roles in subsequent research. This is also related to the following discussion paragraph on the determination of endophytisms and pathogenicity of the isolated fungi. Second, CD-iso recovered the lowest quantity of fungal population, but its identification had the best quality. Most fungal isolates were identified to species-level with >98% identity (Table S2). On the other hand, the other methods amplified shorter DNA fragment and their identifications were subsequently compromised to only genus-level. Third, it is interesting that some fungi were only found by isolation. Was the less abundance the only reason, or were there other potential reasons related to the isolation and sequencing methods? Line 292: The dominance and potential role of Fusarium deserve a more detailed discussion. Line 293-308: More in-depth discussions are warranted in this paragraph. Was there any difference in the soil types and weather conditions at the time samples were collected among these fields? The discussion here can be more valuable if such potential correlation between fungal community and environmental conditions are discussed. Also, this may be a good place to indicate that phyllosphere fungal endophytes were not studied and warrant future research. Cite this review as
Yang X ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Endophytic fungal communities associated with field-grown soybean roots and seeds in the Huang-Huai region of China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4713v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 13, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
