Review History for Anatomical and biomechanical traits of broiler chickens across ontogeny. Part II. Body segment inertial properties and muscle architecture of the pelvic limb [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Anatomical and biomechanical traits of broiler chickens across ontogeny. Part II. Body segment inertial properties and muscle architecture of the pelvic limb To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 2nd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 28th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on June 16th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 16th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Xiang-Jiao Yang
·
Jun 16, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for making the necessary revisions.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 16, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Xiang-Jiao Yang
·
Apr 28, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
In addition to the comments listed in the reviewers' reports, one reviewer indicated that "the authors do not provide data from less derived chickens which would allow an understanding of how much broilers have changed and in ways they have changed." So, please address this point (in addition to those listed in the reviewer's reports)in the revision. A list of point-to-point responses to the specific comments should also be provided.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 16, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This MS focusing on the pelvic limb reports on part 2 of a larger study on broiler chickens. Despite some references being made to part 1 of the study, the current MS is essentially self-contained. Nevertheless it is advantageous to have part 1 of the study (focusing on the respiratory system) available as a PeerJ Preprint. Overall, the authors have done a great job writing this MS. The introduction provides sufficient background to understand the research question, specific aims, and methodological approach. Results are presented clearly and all tables and figures are relevant. All conclusions are well supported by the data. I have noticed only some minor points that I would like to direct the authors’ attention to (see below).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The relevance of the research question addressed in this MS is obvious (welfare concerns of broiler chickens). All methods are clearly described and should enable other researchers to reproduce this study. From my experience, the number of specimens analyzed (5 per age class) is enough to capture most of the variability of anatomical parameters like muscle mass and average fascicle pennation angle and length. However, the authors also examined pathologies of the pelvic limbs and for this question the sample size might be too small to derive robust results. Consequently, the authors do not overstate their results on limb pathology. It is stated that ethical approval was granted, but no license number is provided. At least 40 chicken were sacrificed for this study. I would like the authors to consider detailing how chicken were killed. Were those the same cadavers that also were used in the first part of the study (Tickle et al. MS)?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data collected in this study is robust and conclusions are well supported by this data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Given the considerable space devoted to a discussion of the pathology of the limbs in broiler chicken in the MS, I was surprised to not see this aspect represented in the title or abstract. I would like the authors to consider to partly re-word the abstract: I suggest to not mention the consequences for ventilation, because this aspect is not discussed in the MS. Instead, findings concerning the pathology could be included. In the present form the final 2 sentences of the abstract read like a summary for both parts of the study, which from my understanding is not desired and every article should be self-contained. Abstract, line 4: Please insert a space between ontogeny and influence. Introduction, lines 94-104: Please note that more studies than are mentioned in the MS reported center of mass position and mass properties of avian limb and body segments to derive the body’s center of mass position (lapwing: Nyakatura et al., 2012; quail: Andrada et al., 2013). M&M, line 114: Why have hatchlings not been included in the dataset for the calculation of center of mass across ontogeny? M&M, lines 144-146: Where is the data for the fiber pennation angle shown? It is stated that the data for fascicle length and pennation angle was calculated as the mean of five measurements made across the muscle. Please consider including information on how variable this data is (how representative is the mean?). M&M, lines 206-208: Please consider omitting the sentence starting with “However, …”. Discussion, line 302: Given that different definitions of infection were used in previous studies and that the severity of an infection was not quantified in the current study, please consider clarifying the sentence starting with “BCO was common…”. Discussion, lines 345, 346: The way “et al.” is written should be consistent throughout the MS. Discussion, line 358: The statement “birds with leg weakness are prematurely culled or have an increased incidence of mortality” might need a reference. Discussion, line 443: The paper of Kilbourne (2013 Biol J Linn Soc) might be relevant here as well. Table 2: Please indicate whether the data for BCO is for presence (I assume) or absence of an infection. Table 5: Please provide more information. What exactly does the superscript indicate? Relative to what was CoM position measured? Was CoM position assumed to be within the sagittal plane? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Anatomical and biomechanical traits of broiler chickens across ontogeny. Part II. Body segment inertial properties and muscle architecture of the pelvic limb (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.473v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 28, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is well written and very clear. The data are valuable and clearly presented.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This is a carefully conducted study that describes ontogenetic changes in the musculoskeletal system of the hind limb and the position of center of mass of broiler chickens. The analyses appear to be fully appropriate. My only concern is that the manuscript provides very little comparative information that would allow a broader understanding of what the observed ontogenetic patterns represent. For example, it would be helpful to have similar anatomical measurements during ontogeny for junglefowl or outbred chickens. Such data are clearly beyond the scope of this study, but without this comparative information many of the more interesting questions that these data might address cannot be answered.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings represent an important contribution.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Anatomical and biomechanical traits of broiler chickens across ontogeny. Part II. Body segment inertial properties and muscle architecture of the pelvic limb (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.473v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 2, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
