Review History for Stinging wasps (Hymenoptera: Aculeata), which species have the longest sting? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Stinging wasps (Hymenoptera: Aculeata), which species have the longest sting? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 8th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 2nd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 18th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 20th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Sheila Colla
·
Apr 20, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for thoughtfully incorporating the reviewer comments. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Nigel Andrew, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 18, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Sheila Colla
·
Apr 2, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address the comments made by the two reviewers either in the text or through a response. Thank you.
label_author_1
Justin Schmidt ·
Mar 26, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The basic reporting is sound. A few more details are presented in the comments to authors panel.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design seems sound. A few minor comments are also listed in the comments to authors section below.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I find the validity of findings sound with the minor suggestion that the discussion on host biology is a bit weak and is really unnecessary. Its omission would not hurt the manuscript overall, rather might improve it.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript addresses some interesting questions relating to the importance of the aculeate hymenopteran sting length and various venom and defensive aspects of the insects. The presentation is mostly straightforward and readily understandable. In the Methods section, the description of how the sting length is measured could be improved. The authors did not explain in detail how the length was determined; that is, was the length taken as the shortest distance between the triangular plate and the tip of the sting, or was some adjustment for the curvature and the length of the curve part of the sting measured? Many of the stings are curved, sometimes strongly curved as in the Mutillidae, and this length seems more suitable to use rather than simply the shortest route from one point to the next. When the sting is used it follows the shape of the sting shaft not the shape of the shortest distance between the triangular plate and the tip. In the Results Table 1 only two ants are represented, yet ants are a crucially important group that are often highly toxic and painful and the study would benefit greatly by addition of a few more species – for example a Pogonomyrmex, an Odontomachus, and a Neoponera. These are all common species that should be readily available and would add important information to the study. This might also add more data to strengthen the evaluation of sting length versus venom painfulness and insect sociality. Also for Table 1 the order would make more sense to have the taxa listed according to phylogeneny as presented in Branstetter et al 2017. This would help the reader visualize the importance of phylogeny versus biology and lifestyle. Figure 1b would be improved with two changes: first, the axes need units; and second, since the Pompilidae are represented by numerous species and are an important comparison to the Mutillidae, I recommend making another line of a different color for them just as was done for the Mutillidae. Figure 2 could be strengthened if how the points were obtained was clarified; that is, is each point the average for an entire family, or for an individual species? This might be important as some families have many representative taxa and others have only one. I suggest the presentation relating to hosts and relative sting length be eliminated. This is because the many points from the Mutillidae, all of whom parasitize Hymenoptera, bias the overall relationship. Ideally we would compare equal numbers of taxa in each host or dietary type. I do not think eliminating this information would overall weaken the manuscript, rather would strengthen it. Some of the references are missing journal volume and page numbers. These presumably will be added in the final version. Cite this review as
Schmidt JO ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Stinging wasps (Hymenoptera: Aculeata), which species have the longest sting? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4743v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 27, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript presents data on sting length in the aculeate Hymenoptera, and interspecifically compares sting length to other aspects of wasp behavior and ecology to better understand sting length evolution. I think this is an interesting topic on an an interesting group of organisms. The paper is easy to read, and the figures are also easy to read and visually appealing. The literature is well-discussed. I have two major comments in this category: 1. The discussion is devoted to presenting interesting adaptive hypotheses explaining the long stings of velvet ants. However, it’s typical that the main results presented in the results section and figures are at least mentioned in the discussion. It seems that the discussion addresses the title question: Which species have the longest sting?, but overlooks the other questions asked with your comparative analyses. I would add a paragraph or two to discuss the relationship between (relative) sting length and toxicity, and the lack of a relationship between sting length and pain. When doing so, it would be important to point out that the pain estimates are likely rather noisy, given the method used. These patterns are mentioned in the abstract and the results section, and thus should be brought up in the discussion as well. 2. I was able to open and see the data and code in the supplemental files. However, I think it would be helpful to include an additional file explaining the columns in each file. For example, I don’t know what the column “kind” with values 1000 or 10 refers to. And why does each entry have a “velvet sting” and a “wasp sting” category? Unless I’m misunderstanding the dataset, each line in the sting_data.txt is a measured sample. If so, please include the species name, or further clarify what these data are.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I think the experimental design is OK, but has two drawbacks. 1. L134: The method of inferring pain scores seems prone to bias and noise. Were you going strictly by the nearest phylogenetic relative with an independent pain report? How many of the samples were “imputed” in this way? Given that species can vary in pain rather a lot even within genera (e.g. Pogonomyrmex), I think inferring pain levels from different FAMILIES is likely to be rather noisy. Pointing out that these data are likely to be noisy, and that this could influence the negative result you found, seems important. 2. Statistical power in phylogenetic comparisons The authors report an association between sting length and host, as well as defensive behavior (last line of the abstract, and throughout the discussion). I think the adaptive hypotheses presented in the discussion (host use and defense) are good candidates to explain the longer stings of the velvet ants. However, it is also important to note that the sting length association with host type (and perhaps with defensive behaviors) is the result of a single phylogenetic origin in the velvet ants. Thus, the statistical evidence for an association with host type is less strong than assumed here. This doesn’t mean that the suggested hypotheses are wrong, but this limitation should be pointed out. In principle, any shared, derived feature of that group is as statistically associated with long sting length as host type. I don’t think it is necessary for this manuscript for the authors to perform a phylogenetically controlled statistical analysis, but it is important to acknowledge this weakness of the current analysis. I refer the authors to the immense literature on phylogenetic comparative analyses, which they likely are already familiar with (eg Harvey and Pagel 1991 The Comparative Method in Evolutionary Biology, Oxford University Press).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I think the findings are valid, especially if the comparative analyses are discussed in the discussion (see above), and a caveat is added to acknowledge limitations due to 1. inferred pain values and 2. a lack of phylogenetic control.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Minor comments L19: inert a “While…” or an “…and…” or something else to make this read better. L115: maybe clarify this a bit. The current wording made me think that you only have stings available, yet you somehow obtain mesosomal lengths…thus, sting slides are not the only available individuals. My guess is you did this to avoid destroying samples to get the sting measurements, but maybe make this clearer. Table 1: i think it would be better if you say in the caption that pain data were not available for all taxa as well, and perhaps have another column indicating whether the pain score came directly from the literature or from personal experience, or inferred from related species. L229: “ants” should be possessive, either ant’s or ants’, or singular (ant). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Stinging wasps (Hymenoptera: Aculeata), which species have the longest sting? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4743v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 8, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
