Review History for Data-mining of potential antitubercular activities from molecular ingredients of traditional Chinese medicines [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Data-mining of potential antitubercular activities from molecular ingredients of traditional Chinese medicines To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 8th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 7th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on June 10th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 17th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marek Radomski
·
Jun 17, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your submission to PeerJ. Your manuscript is Accepted for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 10, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marek Radomski
·
Mar 7, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
This is an intetesting contribution describing data mining for traditional Chinese medication. In order to improve quality of this work authors may wish to address points raised by Reviewers 1 and 2.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 28, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is an interesting paper which reports on the data mining exercise using traditional Chinese medication compounds with potential antitubercular activity. While the idea is sound and the paper should eventually be published I'd like to raise a few issues which in my opinion are of importance in this context. First, the concept behind TCM is vastly different from Western pharmacology. TCM is based on synergistic action of many components, some of which are active, some supportive and some benign. However, all of them are used in low concentrations so the action of any individual ingredient does not overwhelm the totality of the composition. For this reason I'm skeptical that searching for individual chemical entities with potency which is sufficient to act as a single drug will be successful.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors relied entirely on bioinformatic tools and no experimental validation of these findings is provided. This is still potentially useful but I would at least expect a deeper analysis in terms of common chemical features of the top ranking hits and perhaps docking to putative targets to predict their binding affinity. Ideally, a pharmacophore could be proposed by the authors which could lead to the design of novel drug entities.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
It's hard to comment on the validity of the findings since these are only bioinformatic predictions without experimental validation. It would be useful for those who could validate these findings to have information about the commercial availability of the top ranking compounds.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
some of the websites cited in the paper are hard to access or to use. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Data-mining of potential antitubercular activities from molecular ingredients of traditional Chinese medicines (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.476v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 3, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is an interesting paper which offers a comprehensive approach to data mining bio-active compounds from traditional Chinese medicines. The article is clearly laid out and supporting data is comprehensive. The weak point I identify is lack of discussion and correlation of literature data on the lead molecules identified in Tables 2 and 3. Such a correlation could confirm activity of the prioritised compounds, or identify research opportunities.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Satisfactory
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Again, I think this article could be strengthened by correlating the results of the data mining work with literature reports on bio-activity of the metabolites and TCM medicines with potential anti-tubercular activity.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I feel that the authors should make some amendments to the article by including some correlation with the literature, citing any documented anti-tubercular or anti-microbial activity associated with the highlighted metabolites or their originating TCM products. This could be added toTable 2 or 3. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Data-mining of potential antitubercular activities from molecular ingredients of traditional Chinese medicines (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.476v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Mar 7, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The paper entitled "Data-mining of potential antitubercular activities from molecular ingredients of Traditional Chinese Medicines" is of great interest to the entire scientific community with great relevance and discoveries. This is a well written manuscript, relevant literature is appropriately referenced, the final conclusion is appropriately connected to the original question investigated. Figures are relevant to the content of the article, and appropriately described.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Experimental design is clearly described, methods are described with sufficient information, with a high technical standard. In the present study Authors have used two computational models based on high throughpout assays on Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Additionally, they used a filter based approach to filter out potential false positive/toxic molecules.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Data analysis technique is appropriate; final conclusions are supported by the results and appropriately stated.
Comments for the author
My only suggestion is that: Improve quality/ resolution of presented figures and compound structures in Table 1. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #3 of "Data-mining of potential antitubercular activities from molecular ingredients of traditional Chinese medicines (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.476v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 8, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
