Review History for Exosomes in cancer: small vesicular transporters for cancer progression and metastasis, biomarkers in cancer therapeutics [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Exosomes in cancer: small vesicular transporters for cancer progression and metastasis, biomarkers in cancer therapeutics To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 22nd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 10th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 16th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 23rd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
J. Thomas Sanderson
·
Apr 23, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have accepted the revised version as its contents has been adapted very well according to the reviewer comments and will contribute to PeerJ.. Thank you for your contribution. Thomas
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 16, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
J. Thomas Sanderson
·
Apr 10, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Atefe, Two reviewers knowledgeable in the field of exosome research and cancer found your review to be comprehensive and a valuable contribution to PeerJ and the scientific community. Please address the minor revisions requested regarding figure legends, grammar and typos. I look forward to your resubmission. Thomas Sanderson
label_author_1
Asfar Azmi ·
Mar 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The review by Atefe Abek and colleagues is a comprehensive attempt to describe the multifaceted roles of microvesicles, exosomes, and microparticles in the carcinogenesis process. The authors cover a vast array of reports that have described the roles of these tiny vesicles in cancer progression, metastasis and drug resistance. The article is supported by a comprehensive list of updated references. The 5 figures are quite high quality and capture the essence of the exosomal signaling related to cancer. The table is very comprehensive and covers the subject in its entirety. Specific comments: The legends to the figure can be enhanced. This would make the figures self-explanatory There are several instances where the authors have mixed up the tense which should be checked and corrected. For example the use of had is misplaced in this article Typos should be checked and corrected
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The review is very comprehensive and well designed
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The article text is supported by updated references
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The review by Atefe Abek and colleagues is a comprehensive attempt to describe the multifaceted roles of microvesicles, exosomes, and microparticles in the carcinogenesis process. The authors cover a vast array of reports that have described the roles of these tiny vesicles in cancer progression, metastasis and drug resistance. The article is supported by a comprehensive list of updated references. The 5 figures are quite high quality and capture the essence of the exosomal signaling related to cancer. The table is very comprehensive and covers the subject in its entirety. Specific comments: The legends to the figure can be enhanced. This would make the figures self-explanatory There are several instances where the authors have mixed up the tense which should be checked and corrected. For example the use of had is misplaced in this article Typos should be checked and corrected Cite this review as
Azmi A ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Exosomes in cancer: small vesicular transporters for cancer progression and metastasis, biomarkers in cancer therapeutics (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4763v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 30, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I think this paper contains a serious concern regarding the paper which they have cited. For instance, some of the paper, which they have cited, have used ExoQuck, which is the commercially available kit for isolation of "exosome" with contamination of other soluble proteins. Authors should exclude these kinds of paper, which are not able to provide the evidence that each paper really worked on the exosome or not.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment on this. This paper is Review paper and there is no new finding based on the experiment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment on this. This paper is Review paper and there is no new finding based on the experiment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall, this manuscript was well written regarding the roles of the exosome in cancer development, however, some of the content of some of the topic is a little superficial. For instance, "6. Exosomes Isolation and Analysis" are critical for exosome research, and there are huge issues to be solved for this. Authors should describe the pros and cons of each method and should mention to the reader that commercially available kit has some limitation for the analysis of exosome research. In addition, as I wrote in the above, the paper, which authors have cited, is not appropriate for me. For instance, when they have mentioned about pre-metastatic niche, they have cited Khalyfa et al rather than the following paper which showed the evidence regarding the contribution of exosome in pre-metastatic niche formation firstly in the world. Authors should check all of the references again and cite the paper which has shown the things firstly in that research field or follow the context of their manuscript. Peinado H, Aleckovic M, Lavotshkin S, Matei I, Costa-Silva B, Moreno-Bueno G, Hergueta-Redondo M, Williams C, García-Santos G, Ghajar C, Nitadori-Hoshino A, Hoffman C, Badal K, Garcia BA, Callahan MK, Yuan J, Martins VR, Skog J, Kaplan RN, Brady MS, Wolchok JD, Chapman PB, Kang Y, Bromberg J, Lyden D. Melanoma exosomes educate bone marrow progenitor cells toward a pro-metastatic phenotype through MET. Nat Med. 2012 Jun;18(6):883-91. doi: 10.1038/nm.2753. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Exosomes in cancer: small vesicular transporters for cancer progression and metastasis, biomarkers in cancer therapeutics (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4763v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 22, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
