Review History for Effect of elevated temperature on membrane lipid saturation in Antarctic notothenioid fish [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effect of elevated temperature on membrane lipid saturation in Antarctic notothenioid fish To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 30th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 7th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 17th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 23rd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
I. Emma Huertas
·
Apr 23, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
We thank you for your patience and we hope that this new and improved publication structure will encourage you to submit your latest research results again to PeerJ # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by James Reimer, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 17, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
I. Emma Huertas
·
Mar 7, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I would suggest to include more information regarding the experimental design, particularly how fish were housed and the thermal challenges administered.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is well-written and the literature review is thorough and informative, especially in the Results and Discussion section. Raw data are supplied. The authors might consider using different notation for fatty acids. Instead of using the format “C16:1c9”, the smaller “c” could be replaced with “<U+0394>”. In physiological papers, it more common to use “C16:1n9” or C16:1<U+03C9>9”.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Sample sizes are small and replication of experimental trials was not performed. However, given the difficulties in working with Antarctic fishes, this is understandable. The physiology of Antarctic fishes is not well-understood, so a major strength of this paper is providing new information on membrane fatty acid composition, membrane cholesterol, and changes during thermal acclimation. Inclusion of the non-Antarctic, New Zealand fish species (N. celidotus) in the study needs to be justified. This species is in a different family (Labridae) than the Antarctic species so it is distantly related, and moreover, this species occurs in habitats that are considerably warmer. Phylogenetic and environmental effects are confounded, making it difficult to make meaningful comparisons between this species and the Antarctic fishes with respect to membrane fatty acid composition. I would consider removing it from the analysis.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In general, the analysis is appropriate and conclusions are reasonable and well-supported by citing appropriate previous work. The only significant question I have is the use of the desaturase index. Although the desaturase index may correlate with membrane saturation state, it does not necessarily reflect a cause and effect relationship. The decrease in the C16:1/C16:0 index reported by the authors could be due to a decrease in desaturase activity, but it could also be due to changes in mobilization and incorporation rates of specific fatty acids from storage lipids. If changes in desaturase are involved, then the situation is complex since the response appeared to occur with respect to C16:0 but not C18:0. Also, changes in C16:0 and C16:1 individually in response to thermal acclimation were not significant in TB according to figure 5, so my confidence in the actual significance of the desaturase index in this case is not particularly strong. Overall, I do not believe that the desaturase index contributes much to the overall paper since no direct enzymatic data or information regarding storage lipid dynamics are provided, so removing it from the paper should be considered. A minor point: it is common with fatty acid percentage data to use arcsine transformations to meet assumptions of normality and homogeneity of variances for ANOVA. The authors state that untransformed data were used, so it should be clear that assumptions for the ANOVA were met without transformation of the data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall the paper well-written and is a valuable contribution to our understanding of the physiology of Antarctic fishes. The two main issues that I would address are: 1. consider removing the data and comparisons involving the non-Antarctic fish since phylogenetic and environmental effects are confounded 2. consider removing the desaturase index since alternate explanations are available and no direct evidence for changes in enzyme activity are provided Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effect of elevated temperature on membrane lipid saturation in Antarctic notothenioid fish (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4765v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 6, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is written in clear English, is relatively easy to follow along, and is organized well.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I would appreciate more information on the housing and experimental setup being added to the manuscript rather than relying on the supplemental information (Expanding lines 116 - 121 to include numbers, time frame of acclimation to water temps, and how water temps were raised).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I believe the findings are relatively sound and are analyzed appropriately. I would suggest removing the information in lines 358-363 trying to explain the day 2 spike in osmolality. Instead I would just focus on the general decrease in osmolality seen over time post acclimation.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Serveral citations are bit messed up, possibly due to some citation software being used. (lines 124,315). There is an "unknown MUFA", if you know it is a MUFA then you probably know the carbon chain length but not the location of the double bone. It would be helpful to report this as 18:1 or 20:1 or whatever it is. I would also remove line 75- 76 and combine lines 76 - 79 into the previous paragraph to wrap up changes that occur to membranes when water temperature rises. For the PCA, consider using different symbol shapes for the non-antarctic fish, icefish, and antarctic fish to help differentiate them more than the gray scale color alone. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effect of elevated temperature on membrane lipid saturation in Antarctic notothenioid fish (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4765v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 30, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
