Review History for Unfolding of a-helical 20-residue poly-glutamic acid analyzed by multiple runs of canonical molecular dynamics simulations [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Unfolding of a-helical 20-residue poly-glutamic acid analyzed by multiple runs of canonical molecular dynamics simulations To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 20th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 20th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 11th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 24th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Freddie Salsbury Jr
·
Apr 24, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The comments have been addressed, I am happy to Accept your submission. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Pedro Silva, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I am satisfied with the revised version of the manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Appropriate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Appear to be valid.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The revised version is ready for publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Unfolding of a-helical 20-residue poly-glutamic acid analyzed by multiple runs of canonical molecular dynamics simulations (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4769v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 11, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Freddie Salsbury Jr
·
Mar 20, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Review two especially makes some important points. Though NVT vs NPT might not matter depending on the system size.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 14, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a tedious but useful study of the 20-residue poly-glutamic acid. The poly-glutamic acid may come with various lengths and its properties depend on the length. There is no mention of this in the manuscript. One paper that should be referred to in this context is Gomez-Sicilia et al. PLoS Comp. Biol. 11: e1004541 (2015). The authors comment about the necessity of having force fields that would be more adequate for the IDP systems. There is already at least one such a force field available: Huang et al. Nature Methods 14: 71 (2017). At length 20, the system is also an IDP but these aspects are not characterized adequately. One way to do it is to provide values of the average end-to-end distance, its dispersion, and the average radius of gyration. The time-dependent structure has other interesting features than merely the secondary-structure content.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The theoretical set-up is appropriate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings appear to be valid but limited.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Same as in point 1. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Unfolding of a-helical 20-residue poly-glutamic acid analyzed by multiple runs of canonical molecular dynamics simulations (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4769v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Clear and unambiguous, professional English used throughout. Literature references, sufficient field background/context provided. Professional article structure, figs, tables. Raw data shared. Self-contained with relevant results to hypotheses.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Original primary research within Aims and Scope of the journal. Research question well defined, relevant & meaningful. It is stated how research fills an identified knowledge gap. Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical & ethical standard. Methods described with sufficient detail & information to replicate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled. Conclusion are well stated, linked to original research question & limited to supporting results.
Comments for the author
The manuscript studies helical unfolding or helix/coil transition of a 20-residue Polyglutamic acid (PGA) in an acidic environment through explicit canonical (NVT) MD simulations to verify with two previously reported helical structures of PGA: single alpha-helix or short alpha helices separated by coil. The authors ran simulations with two different alpha helical conformations as starting structure – one with a helical conformation obtained from their previous MD study and the other, which they refer to as ideal alpha helix, was curated with all backbone phi and psi angles in the helical range. A total of 8 and 20 simulations with different starting velocities were run with the helical structure obtained from their MD study and with the ideal helical structure respectively. Among these, 3 simulations with the MD-obtained helix was run for 3 microseconds to account for long-term dynamics, the rest being all 400 ns each. The authors observed different unfolding times for the first three simulations, with transient helix formation after the first unfolding event, except for one of the simulations. The majority of simulations showed helix-coil transitions starting from both the termini and extending to the middle segment, and that the turn conformations were highly coupled with such transitions as obtained from their ensemble averaged transition probabilities starting from the ideal helix. They also obtained coupling of the 3-10 helices with alpha helices. They claimed that both the turns and 3-10 helices as kinetic intermediates in the helical unfolding pathway. Overall, the manuscript reports well on conformational changes on a set of long simulation results from two different structures of a single protein, which is extensive. The secondary structure transition probability analyses, although ensemble averaged is satisfying. However, there are few things that may need to be clarified. Firstly, in the simulation method, they have used ensembles generated by NVT. There must be a good reason for this. In order to model conformational changes, that is helix-coil transitions in this case, it may be a good idea to use NPT as most experimental measures are obtained under constant pressure. This makes more sense in the light of their introduction to the topic, where the authors indicate towards verifying their findings with previously reported FTIR and CD spectroscopy. Secondly, in Figure 2, which shows the cumulative helix averages over the 3.0 microseconds runs (Sim1, Sim2 and Sim3) with same initial structure, but different starting velocities record quite different helical probabilities: especially with Sim 1 there is a sudden increase in helices between 0.5 and 1.5 microseconds. The authors need to give better explanation (rather than sampling time) why such a trend is seen with one simulation (may be some close side chain contacts stabilizing the helices?), but not the other two, although they have noted this in the text (lines 156-159). Finally, the claim in the conclusions and the abstract that turn and 3-10 helices are kinetic intermediates in the helix-coil transitions are based only on 3 (N-term, C-term and middle) out of a total of 20 residues in their analyses. In order to gain statistically significant numbers (and the kinetic intermediate claim), one has to consider the evolution/probabilities of at least 11 out 20 residues (>50%). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Unfolding of a-helical 20-residue poly-glutamic acid analyzed by multiple runs of canonical molecular dynamics simulations (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4769v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 20, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
