Review History for Protection of cultured brain endothelial cells from cytokine-induced damage by a-melanocyte stimulating hormone [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Protection of cultured brain endothelial cells from cytokine-induced damage by a-melanocyte stimulating hormone To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 21st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 17th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 20th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 25th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Elena González-Burgos
·
Apr 25, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript is already for publication # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 20, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Elena González-Burgos
·
Mar 17, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Maria, Three reviewers have provided their opinions although only one of them provided any suggestions for improvement. Please respond to all the comments of Reviewer 2.
label_author_1
Anuska Andjelkovic ·
Mar 14, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
excellent study
Experimental design
label_ed_1
excellent design
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
novel and inovative
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Harazin and coauthors have investigated the protective effect of alpha-MSH on brain endothelial cells and in vitro BBB model system. They found that alpha-MSH attenuated the cytokines –induced- BBB permeability, reduced production of reactive oxygen species, and NF-kB translocation. This is one excellent study. In general, I found the manuscript well prepared and study is carefully designed and mapped out. Data are convincing, well presented and discussed. I did not have any specific concerns regarding this study. Cite this review as
Andjelkovic A ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Protection of cultured brain endothelial cells from cytokine-induced damage by a-melanocyte stimulating hormone (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4774v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this study ‘Protection of rat brain endothelial cells from cytokine-induced damage by alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone’ by Harazin et al., the authors established an in vitro culture model of BBB and studied the protective effects of alpha-MSH on the integrity of BBB from cytokines IL-1beta and TNF-alpha induced damage. The study’s background, experimental flow and data analysis were clearly reported, and appropriate publications have been cited to support the author’s work.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The idea of using alpha-MSH to protect BBB from inflammation-induced damage is in general well tested in vitro. However, there are some limitations regarding the experimental set up and design. First, the authors used an overly simplified model of just two cytokines at one dose to mimic neuroinflammation. It is unclear why a fixed dose of cytokines were chosen without titration, and why the authors only included two cytokines while in reality many cytokines are involved in neuronflammation (i.e IL-6, IL-18, IL-33). The authors should confirm their studies with a more comprehensive cytokine cocktail and also try a series of doses to demonstrate the true efficacy of alpha-MSH. The in vitro protective effect of alpha-MSH was modest in most experiments, therefore one would question its efficacy in vivo, when delivery route and other barriers may further limit the final amount of alpha-MSH that could actually exert effect on brain endothelial cells. The authors should set up at least some in vivo assays to show the protective effects of alpha-MSH in vivo. In addition, as the authors mentioned alpha-MSH has receptors on different tissues, the authors should carefully address the potential issue of toxicity/off-target effect of using alpha-MSH in vivo.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
As mentioned above, the neuronal protective effect of alpha-MSH was modest in most experiments. Especially in the first in some assays, the effects at higher 10uM concentration were actually more modest than those at a lower dose (1uM) (i.e. data in Figure 3). The authors should at least discuss why alpha-MSH effect did not correspond well with the applied dose. Figure 1: the authors only showed the expression of MC1R on cells cultured in vitro, which is somewhat artificially and could be modulated by culture conditions. It is better to actually do IHC or IF on tissue sections to demonstrate MC1R expression in vivo. Figure 5: The difference of barrier integrity as shown by claudin-5 and beta-catenin expression as shown was at best modest. It is hard to tell the difference by looking at the picture and find where the junction was breached. It would be much better to quantify the data and point out where the damages are in the picture. Also the authors need to clarify how many pictures they actually quantify, more than one experiments should be done.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Protection of cultured brain endothelial cells from cytokine-induced damage by a-melanocyte stimulating hormone (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4774v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Mar 17, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article 'Protection of rat brain endothelial cells from 1 cytokine-induced damage by a-melanocyte<U+2028>stimulating hormone' by Harazin et al, have explored the inhibitory role of MSH in neuroinflammation specifically in the context of blood brain barrier. In my opinion, the authors report important and translationally relevant implications of this biology that will be of interest to the field in general. The observations appear to be robust and have been effectively described. Overall, the link between MSH and blood brain barrier protection has been established through well-designed experiments in multiple settings, suggesting a general role for MSH in regulating blood brain barrier function. I have no major concerns. I strongly suggest the manuscript for publication.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No comment
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Protection of cultured brain endothelial cells from cytokine-induced damage by a-melanocyte stimulating hormone (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4774v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 21, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
