Review History for Diversity and community structure of marine microbes around the Benham Rise underwater plateau, northeastern Philippines [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Diversity and community structure of marine microbes around the Benham Rise underwater plateau, northeastern Philippines To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 8th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 15th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 15th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 26th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Craig Moyer
·
Apr 26, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Authors have successfully incorporated reviewer's suggested edits. Manuscript reads much better now. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Valeria Souza, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 15, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Craig Moyer
·
Feb 15, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please take a close look at the reviewer's comments. I agree the manuscript suffers based on current organization. Too much emphasis is placed on the analysis pipeline, especially with so few samples. This should be toned down. You may want to consider updating your analysis with the SILVA 132 release as well.
label_author_1
Eric Collins ·
Jan 25, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is well-written with standard structure and sufficient references.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This article fills a gap by exploring the diversity of microbes in the marine environment near the Philippines. The methods generally followed standards in the field. I do have some comments: L142: says SILVA release 102 was used. This database is from 2010 and is only 25% the size of the current release, SILVA 132, with poorer curated alignments. Mismatches and poor alignments to the reference may partially account for the high number of OTUs found. The mothur-RDP sections and inter-method comparisons could (and I think probably should) be removed because the comparison between pipelines is not completed on enough samples to be broadly useful beyond this publication. The obvious lack of representation of the expected community also argues against the usefulness of the mothur-RDP dataset.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The main issue, as mentioned by previous reviewers, is the limited number of samples (N=11 in 3 depth bins). This is useful for a first-pass pilot study but rigorous statistical treatment really isn't feasible with so few samples. L224: two of these are obligate anaerobes -- how did they get into surface waters? Figure 3. This comparison between studies is invalid because of the different methods used. The authors might still discuss the general trend of higher diversity with depth, but the surface-only comparisons with other seas aren't meaningful and should be removed. People have found that just about everything affects these diversity measurements, so unless you use identical collection, filtering, DNA extraction methods, primers, PCR conditions, Illumina library kits and methods, demultiplexing, software versions, and database versions, you shouldn't be comparing these numbers (that's why EMP, Tara, OSD, etc. have standardized all of these methods). And *especially* not between metagenomic and amplicon sequencing methods. It's not telling you about the communities, only the methods, and even then it's not telling you very much.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I commend the authors on the extensive metadata they've provided with the manuscript. It is a valuable dataset and I look forward to its eventual publication. Cite this review as
Collins E ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Diversity and community structure of marine microbes around the Benham Rise underwater plateau, northeastern Philippines (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4781v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 15, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript meets the criteria required for basic reporting.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The manuscript is a unique primary research study. There are some issues to resolve regarding experimental design prior to publication. More specifically, the question needs to be better defined given the data presented. The introduction justifies the need to resolve microbial diversity in this part of the ocean. However, much of the paper and data, figures and supplement are focused more on comparing 16S rDNA community characterization pipelines. There are several problems with this (see general comments for the author). The manuscript needs to be reorganized. It's not clear to me why results from the Mothur MiSeq pipeline were discussed in great detail, and before results from the SILVA pipeline, especially given the clear indication that SILVA produced much better results. Many of the figures are not discussed in sufficient detail. Very little information is provided in the results section to help the reader interpret the figures and many of the supplemental figures are not needed. Data in many of the figures and tables are introduced only briefly (a single sentence) and/or presented at different places in the results section. This makes it very difficult to follow. Specific example (line 203), the first time Figure 1B is introduced there is no mention of the different 16S rDNA analysis pipelines. Specific example, Figures S4, S5 and S6 are introduced in only briefly (line 212-217).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Much of the supplement is not needed. It is either presented sufficiently in the text or not discussed in enough detail in the results. Some examples are listed below: The data in Fig. S2 would be more useful to the community if they were provided in a table. The plots are OK but not really needed since there is very little difference and the results are expected for this type of system. Data in a table could be used by others for modeling or other analyses that need the numbers. Some discussion about the data in the results could help. For example, what is the range for some of the important variables plotted? Key features, depths indicating changes in water masses, etc.? The word contigs is used. Are these contigs (overlapping sequence reads) or are they individual sequence reads? Some discussion to help explain Figure 1B line 203 is needed. What are some of the observed similarities with analysis method and sample type? What are some of the differences? This sentence gives the impression that there should only be one bar in the graph for the relative abundance of these groups. What is the significance of the different bar graphs for these groups? SILVA appears to do a much better job. Why show differences in the analysis methods? This is mentioned later (line 256) for the SILVA analysis, but by the time I got that far I was already confused about the purpose of the figure.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Reorganize the manuscript using the best data/analysis about diversity in this part of the ocean. Differences in analysis methods are secondary, if included at all. If they are included, consider presenting the more accurate data (SILVA) first and discussing the relevance. Present a methods comparison last. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Diversity and community structure of marine microbes around the Benham Rise underwater plateau, northeastern Philippines (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4781v0.1/reviews/2 External reviews were received for this submission. These reviews were used by the Editor when they made their decision, and can be downloaded below. Download Original Submission (PDF)
Download external reviews
- submitted Jan 8, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
