Review History for Variations in early life history traits of Japanese anchovy Engraulis japonicus in the Yangtze River Estuary [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Variations in early life history traits of Japanese anchovy Engraulis japonicus in the Yangtze River Estuary To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 29th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 8th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 10th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 28th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Kenneth Leung
·
Apr 28, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have read the rebuttals and revised MS which are in good order. The study is of good quality and thus I am very pleased to Accept this revised manuscript for publication.
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript, particularly the introduction is much improved.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings will still be important for only Anchovy researchers, but given the importance of the fish for the region, they can be considered significant.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors have responded to my comments to satisfaction, and I have no further questions. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Variations in early life history traits of Japanese anchovy Engraulis japonicus in the Yangtze River Estuary (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4789v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 10, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Kenneth Leung
·
Feb 8, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I concur with the three expert reviewers that the manuscript requires a Major Revision. When submitting a revised version, please provide a list of point-by-point responses to individual comments of the reviewers.
label_author_2
Kiran Liversage ·
Jan 25, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
There are some minor issues with presentation of the text (i.e. spaces between words are occasionally omitted throughout) but the use of English language is quite good. The use of references from the literature could use some improvement, as there are huge amounts of literature available on anchovy and other similar fish from many regions regarding their growth and analysis of otoliths, but only a small amount of this literature is assessed in this manuscript. Also, some of the references do not seem to be on the topics of the sentences that are placed with e.g. line 36-37. And some large statements are made without providing references, which should be included e.g. line 43. The figures are good quality, but some of them are not very relevant and are likely not needed. For example, Figure 1 shows a large number of sampling stations, but it appears only 2 of these stations were actually used here, so most of the information is unnecessary. Figure 2 only serves the purpose of showing a photograph of an otolith, which does not provide much information to the reader. Figure 5 and 6 show that as anchovy get older in age, they also get bigger in length and their otoliths get bigger, which is only very basic information which probably does not need to be presented.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research aims to fill a knowledge gap concerning unknown aspects of early life history of anchovy in the Yangtze estuary, but the design of the experiment is small in scale and in its current form cannot come close to achieving this aim. It appears only two closely spaced stations were assessed here with samples taken during 10 minutes of sampling at each station. Readers will wonder why anchovy samples were not also collected and analysed from the other 32 stations. For example, an analysis of effects from a possible salinity gradient from the stations within the river to the many off-shore stations may make the study more comprehensive and of greater interest. The authors should consider possibilities like this for any re-writing of the manuscript. From the abstract and introduction it seems to the reader that some new data will be presented also about anchovy in Taiwan and Japan, but when the reader gets to the methods it is clear these data are previously published descriptions from many years previous that the Yangtze data are very informally compared to. Thus the aim stated of inter-population comparisons is also not achieved. The quantification of otolith properties from the two stations and calculation of population data appears to be done to a high technical standard, but the statistical analysis needs improvement, e.g. the assumptions (data normality and variance homogeneity) need to be tested and more details of the procedures need to be provided, such as the statistical programmes used for analyses.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
As stated above, more comprehensive data will need to be added to this study before it can be valid for providing relevant information on anchovy in this region. If the authors wish for some valid comparisons with other regions such as Taiwan and Japan, actual new data from those regions will be to be analysed alongside the data from the Yangtze.
Cite this review as
Liversage K ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Variations in early life history traits of Japanese anchovy Engraulis japonicus in the Yangtze River Estuary (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4789v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 28, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The language and formatting need some improvements. Many words are fused as a single word and some sentences e.g. line no 37, 67-69, 91-92 can be simplified for clarity.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Authors aim to profile the distribution of Engraulis japonicus and their larvae to understand variations in their growth and life history traits. A few suggestions are listed below: - It is not very clear when is adult fish data discussed and when is the larvae data discussed. This is confusing in both text and figures. It will be good to explicitly indicate larvae and adult related results for clarity in both text and figures. For example, is otolith analyzed from larvae, fish or both? How is the growth rate of the fish calculated. - Line 118-120: cite the source of the data for other regions. - The data on all the individual larvae should be provided as supplemental files. Also, the annotation of the supplemental file is not enough to understand the columns. - Authors should also use a non-parametric method to compare frequency distributions. - It will be great to include pictures of larvae and the fish if possible.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The manuscript is mostly descriptive and the scope may be very limited. The findings may be valuable for researchers or conservation biologists working on this specific fish. It will be great to discuss the implications of their findings for the conservation of this fish.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Variations in early life history traits of Japanese anchovy Engraulis japonicus in the Yangtze River Estuary (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4789v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_4
Reviewer 3 ·
Feb 7, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_4
The paper was generally written clearly, but both the introduction and discussion could be much more thorough. Please see my attached review.
Experimental design
label_ed_4
The experimental design was appropriate and the study was carried out properly. Methods used were well established and appropriate. I only have issue with the use of the biological intercept method in an area and on a population where otolith and somatic growth may be de-coupled. I discuss this more in depth in the attached review.
Validity of the findings
Here is where I think the manuscript needs further development. I don't feel the authors have thoroughly discussed the patterns they have identified. All the possible drivers of these patterns should be addressed and they should argue their hypotheses of why they found what they did.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Variations in early life history traits of Japanese anchovy Engraulis japonicus in the Yangtze River Estuary (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4789v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 29, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
