Review History for Association of epilepsy and asthma: a population-based retrospective cohort study [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Association of epilepsy and asthma: a population-based retrospective cohort study To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 16th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 8th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 23rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 28th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Francis Boscoe
·
Apr 28, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your responses to the reviewers' comments are satisfactory and the paper is now suitable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 23, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Francis Boscoe
·
Mar 8, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please pay particular attention to the comments under the validity section by Reviewer 2. Thank you for submitting your work to PeerJ.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 7, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In lines 83 and 97 the authors use the phrase “causal relationship” in discussing the relationship between asthma and epilepsy. I would suggest rewording these two sentences since it is unclear if an association exists between the disorders and causation cannot be determined based on an epidemiologic study.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Did you consider additional analyses looking at epilepsy incidence in individuals with low vs. high asthma severity, or in those with uncontrolled vs. controlled asthma? This would be interesting to consider or to discuss as possible future directions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
1.Lines 181-184 of the results note that there was a nonsignificantly higher relative risk estimate in females vs. males; however, the confidence intervals for the estimates in females and males do not overlap, suggesting a statistically significant difference. Please clarify this and specify in the manuscript how significance was tested for the interaction with gender. 2.In lines 219-220, the statement that “patients with epilepsy did not have a significant risk of asthma” is unclear. This would be clearer as “patients with epilepsy did not have a significant increase in risk of asthma compared to patients without epilepsy” or “risk of asthma was not significantly different in patients with epilepsy vs. those without epilepsy”. The same comment applies to line 260 of the discussion and the first sentence of the conclusion in lines 365-367. In the conclusion, “high risk” and “low risk” are used without specifying the referent group. 3.Please add a footnote to Tables 1 and 3 to indicate what the p-values represent and how they were calculated. 4.Clarify footnote a in tables 2 and 4 to indicate that the incidence is per 1000 person-years 5.There were highly significant differences in income between your cases and non-cases in both analyses, but you did not control for income. Was income determined to not be a confounding variable? The assessment of confounding and determination of confounding variables should be discussed in the manuscript. 6.In the discussion or conclusion please discuss impact of these results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Interesting analysis and well-written paper Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Association of epilepsy and asthma: a population-based retrospective cohort study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4792v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Tabassum Insaf ·
Mar 6, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is well written. The study is based in taiwan however the authors cite prevalence and disease burden rates for the United States. In nature with the international scope of the journal and the nature of this study, it would be better if the author provide some additional background on the global burden of disease as well as some perspective on the prevalence within the study region. The structure fits well with the scope of the article. The authors provide adequate information within the tables in the manuscript and the supplementary content to infer their results.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The primary research is within the scope of the journal. The research question is well defined and fills a clear knowledge gap.The authors tap into a rich data source to adequately address their research question. Taiwan's NHI program provides a longitudinal dataset that allows a retrospective cohort study to evaluate incidence of asthma and epilepsy in patients with pre-existing epilepsy and asthma respectively.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors found an increased incidence of epilepsy in all asthmatic patients but an increased incidence of asthma only for age groups of 0-10 years and 31-40 years. The authors provide a discussion of plausible biological pathways that may lead to such findings. The authors adjust for age, sex , region and income in their findings. They posit that both diagnoses share common biological origins such as presence of susceptible genetic loci, common inflammatory triggers such as viral and injury associated cytokines. However if this was the case the authors would have found significant associations for both outcomes. The fact that asthmatics are more prone to epilepsy but not vice versa suggests that it is the sequelae of an asthma diagnosis that result in epilepsy rather than the causal pathways for asthma itself. This may be due to anoxia due to frequent asthma attacks or due to side-effects of anti-asthma medication. It is not clear to me whether the authors would be able to address this using the current dataset. I would suggest that this be clarified further in the Discussion and Conclusion sections. I would also suggest that the authors refrain from using the term " bidirectional" in the discussion and conclusion because teh study only provides conclusive evidence for the increased risk of epilepsy in asthmatics.
Cite this review as
Insaf T ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Association of epilepsy and asthma: a population-based retrospective cohort study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4792v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 16, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
