Review History for Attrition in a 30-year follow-up of a perinatal birth risk cohort: factors change with age [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Attrition in a 30-year follow-up of a perinatal birth risk cohort: factors change with age To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 31st, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 30th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on June 18th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 20th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Raymond Niaura
·
Jun 20, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your submission to PeerJ. I am writing to inform you that your manuscript, "Attrition in a 30-year follow-up of a perinatal birth risk cohort: factors change with age"
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 18, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Raymond Niaura
·
Apr 30, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
In your revision, please be sure to address every point raised by the reviewers, whether you agree or not.
label_author_1
Anne Mette Skovgaard ·
Apr 19, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The paper is interesting and very relevant and I have enjoyed to read it Cite this review as
Skovgaard AM ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Attrition in a 30-year follow-up of a perinatal birth risk cohort: factors change with age (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.480v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Päivi Rautava ·
Apr 25, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The study is carefully carried out, and the manuscript deals with an important aspect that concerns all long-term follow-up studies. The aims are 1) to describe attrition as a general phenomenon, 2) to analyze the causes of attrition and to find out whether those causes are different according to the years of the follow-up and finally 3) to use one’s own study setting as an example of the attrition.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The design is correct and important.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors demontrate in their data the concept of attrition. The attrition is a frequent source of bias in epidemiological studies and the analysis of attrition is essential.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I have few major concerns and a couple of stylistic remarks. First of all, attrition as a concept has to be defined, and also its connections to the concepts of lost-to-follow-up, retention rate, and drop-out (analyses). I realize that attrition is a polite name for the phenomenon caused by drop-outs, but the concept is rarely used so it is good to describe it appropriately. In the method section, the authors should better describe the random forest model and the data mining procedure, because it may be quite unknown for most of the readers who are more familiar using the survival analysis (Cox regression model). Survival analysis allows the use of different explanatory variables in the model, but it may not be a reliable method in this case where the predictors can originate from either the parent or the child, as the authors explain. Moreover, the authors should add a figure about the total retention rate. I enclose here an example. It is often said that the legends of the figures and tables should be so well constructed that they should be able to stand alone, separate from the text of the article, and be understood. The legends in this manuscript need better explanation, especially figure 4. With these alterations, it is much easier to follow the text and the figures and tables. In the introduction, it would be good to add some explanations after the sentence beginning in the line 26. E.g. High proportion of LTFU makes it unreliable to calculate prevalences but cause-consequence analyses are often still possible (e.g.Martikainen P, Laaksonen M, Piha K, Lallukka T. Does survey non-response bias the association between occupational social class and health? Scand J Public Health 2007; 35:212-5) Some minor aspects: -line 118: as part (without article) -a sentence in the line 125 is a bit difficult, clarify -line 157: the assessment of neurological disorder Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Rautava P ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Attrition in a 30-year follow-up of a perinatal birth risk cohort: factors change with age (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.480v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 31, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
