Review History for An improved primer set and amplification protocol with increased specificity and sensitivity targeting the Symbiodinium ITS2 region [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History An improved primer set and amplification protocol with increased specificity and sensitivity targeting the Symbiodinium ITS2 region To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 5th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 19th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 20th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 1st, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tomas Hrbek
·
May 1, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Authors, Your manuscript has been re-reviewed by one of the original reviewers and myself. We both agree that you have addressed the issues brought up in the first review satisfactorily, and that the MS is now acceptable for publication. There are a couple of minor editorial issues in your MS that I corrected using the track-changes option. I will be sending this to you separately. Please incorporate these corrections, and then you can send the final version of the MS to the editorial office. Congratulations on a job well done, and a fine contribution to the community. Sincerely, Tomas Hrbek # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 30, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors have sufficiently addressed my concerns with the previous version of the manuscript and I recommend that it is accepted for publication.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors have sufficiently addressed my concerns with the previous version of the manuscript and I recommend that it is accepted for publication.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors have sufficiently addressed my concerns with the previous version of the manuscript and I recommend that it is accepted for publication.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "An improved primer set and amplification protocol with increased specificity and sensitivity targeting the Symbiodinium ITS2 region (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4816v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 20, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tomas Hrbek
·
Mar 19, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Authors, I have received two reviews, one minor revision and one rejection. I also reviewed the MS myself. The minor revision brings up substantial points and issues, and at the same time your MS does not warrant a rejection on the grounds pointed out by the second reviewer. Thus I am recommending a major revision. In your revision I would like to address these specific points: 1. Your protocol amplified all 9 clades of Symbiodinium consistently at a give temperature. It also amplifies all Symbiodinium clades associated with highly divergent coral groups consistently. So I am assuming that it will amplify consistently Symbiodinium clades consistently with all the different species of coral that are part of the clade represented by your samples. But in spite of this, it would like an explicit statement of which species were used in your analyses, and if this protocol was applied to other species (e.g. range of species to which your protocol was applied in your lab). 2. Different PCR machines, ramping times, etc. probably fall into the same category as different polymerase systems, that is there might be quantitative differences but not qualitative differences. I would appreciate if you could elaborate on this. 3. Make a detailed protocol available publicly, e.g. lab website. This will increase the utility of this protocol. 4. Finally the MS still needs editing; sentence structure and composition is at time awkward. Otherwise I believe this is a fine contribution to the community, and a step towards the standardization of protocols that will result in higher quality and greater consistency data that will be comparable across studies. Sincerely, Tomas Hrbek
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 13, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is well written and follows a construction that adheres to the typical formatting guidelines required of original research. The authors provide a fair representation of the state of the field, however, some important references are missing in support of statements, and these are detailed in the relevant sections below. The samples analysed in this study are part of a larger set of samples collected in the TARA Oceans/Pacific voyages, which have committed to providing the RAW sequenced data. This is detailed in the manuscript. While it is clear that this manuscript is a precursor to forthcoming analyses of much-larger datasets, the relatively simple set of experiments represent a stand-alone manuscript and not the inappropriate subdividing of data.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The aims and objectives are clearly stated and the study addresses a knowledge gap that will be of interest to many coral/Symbiodinium biologists. The methods are generally well-described with sufficient detail if to be repeated. However, there are some concerns as to the factorial design regarding the optimisation of the SYM_VAR primer set and that what was carried out does not match the stated objectives. One of the objectives was to test the number of cycles on the detection of Symbiodinium in samples where cells may be naturally low in abundance (e.g. environmental samples such as open ocean water). Line 255 – “…and whether an increase in the number of PCR cycles actually aids in the amplification of Symbiodinium from samples representing Symbiodinium-rare environments”. However, the opposite was performed during optimisation. Cycle number was actually decreased from 35 cycles, which is the standard protocol for all primer pairs outlined in table 1, to 30 or 25 cycles depending on the treatment. This does not accomplish the objective as directly stated above and is somewhat perplexing. If you have a more specific primer set, why wouldnt you take your cycle number from 35 to 40, or higher, to better detect rare sequences? This objective needs to be either reworded or removed and the results/discussion altered accordingly. Further complications include a optimisation design that is not fully factorial. For example, you find minor differences in the chimeric reads across the two cycle-number treatments, but could this difference be due to the change in annealing temp to 59 C? Why was a 59 C treatment with 35 cycles not conducted? Again, the objective likely needs to be reworded to reflect what was actually conducted. I suspect this lack of a fully-factorial design is also what precluded the use of simple, but informative, statistics that validate the differences seen across the different optimising treatments. While these are relatively straightforward optimisation steps that other researchers could also conduct, one expected outcome of this manuscript is for labs/groups to decide whether or not to adopt this as their new standard protocol, and this ambiguity makes the choice substantially more difficult.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The finding that the SYM_VAR primer set is significantly more specific for Symbiodinium is quite remarkable and is the main finding of the manuscript. An extra 20 to 30% of the sequences being assigned to your target organism is a non-trivial improvement that will appeal to many people in this field, especially as the costs associated to NGS (while dropping) are still relatively high and thus minimizing non-specific amplification will likely be prioritised accordingly. While the post-QC number of sequences are in many samples comparable between primer pairs, please present (in the text) any differences in the quality of the sequencing between primer pairs (check for any patterns in depth vs number of reads that pass QC). Furthermore, whilst this information is likely contained in previous publications (Hume et al), it should be briefly discussed HOW this primer pair has achieved its superiority. I.e. differences in the region of binding, the degenerate design, etc, are currently missing from this manuscript.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Minor comments: 142 –Is there already a DOI or deposit number for the Pangea database that can be referenced here? 161 – Check the reference formatting and spelling of author names. 203 – Change spelling to Mothur 236 – Why this e-value? This seems very high. First interpretation of this value is that we would expect 50 matches to occur simply by chance? Please clarify the use of this threshold. 260 – Which manufacturer? Of the PCR reagents? 275 – Check spelling. “cycle number, OR annealing temperature”. 281 – Please provide some coefficient of variation for these % values here, and throughout the results section. 286 – Does this “respectively” refer to the previous paragraph? 381 – For samples where you only recover 3 out of the 9 known clades, which is a low diversity compared to what is recently being described from reef sediments (7+ clades, Quigley et al 2017 Frontiers), there are only limited conclusions you can draw related to intra-cladal bias. You do suggest the conservative approach, that 56 C is the better option given the small potential for bias, but it should be discussed how further optimisation and assessment of intra-cladal bias need to be carried out on either artificial communities or natural communities with a greater intra-cladal diversity. 387 – This is not what you stated you would do. Above you state you will increase the number of cycles. 417,18 – This statement requires some supporting citation. As you mention, formal species descriptions thus far make limited use of the ITS2 marker or of its intragenomic variants. It is not clear for which clades or sub-clades ITS2 represents a true super-species, species, or sub-species level marker. At this stage species level descriptions have not developed beyond the requiring of other makers in support of the ITS2 data, including 28s, cp23s, and psbAncr. Figure 1 and 4 – While the data within each panel are clear, they are displayed with an inefficient use of space and could be reformatted accordingly. Table 2 – There appears to be an extra annealing temp value in line with ITS-DINO/ITS2Rev2 Table 3 – Please increase the decimal places on the chim/total column (or remove this column) as you already have the chimeric seq number in the table and some are clearly non-zero. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "An improved primer set and amplification protocol with increased specificity and sensitivity targeting the Symbiodinium ITS2 region (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4816v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The authors explained clearly the purpose of this paper and the language used was clear. The structure of the article generally speaking is professionally made. A few references are missing but this is a very easy fix. I have added comments on the pdf file.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research question is very relevant as the question of which primers perform the best under the conditions that the authors tested would attract attention from the increasing number of people assessing Symbiodinium diversity. However, I have explained in the test that I have detected some serious flaws in the experimental design; namely the missing info on the species names and the very low number of replications per potential species. The genomic part is commendable except that some details are missing such as the PCR machine used for the initial amplifications.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
I have explained on the text that lack of basic information regarding the taxonomic ID of the corals and hydrocoral species and the very low number of individuals per species is limiting the potential value of this contribution.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "An improved primer set and amplification protocol with increased specificity and sensitivity targeting the Symbiodinium ITS2 region (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4816v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 5, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
