Review History for Sample entropy analysis for the estimating depth of anaesthesia through human EEG signal at different levels of unconsciousness during surgeries [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Sample entropy analysis for the estimating depth of anaesthesia through human EEG signal at different levels of unconsciousness during surgeries To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 15th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 19th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on March 6th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on April 24th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 2nd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Shawn Gomez
·
May 2, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for taking the effort to improve the writing of the manuscript as well as provide additional details - these have significantly improved the manuscript. Congratulations again.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 24, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Shawn Gomez
·
Apr 8, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
While significant additions have been included to help address reviewer concerns, the text and underlying science is still quite difficult to follow. Broadly, although it appears that a language editor was brought in to help improve the writing, fundamental issues remain. These issues are significant enough that I would recommend using a different language editing service with strength in scientific writing. Note that both the main text as well as the figure captions need improved clarity and overall improved language before being acceptable for publication. While the underlying data being studied has been explained better, detail is still lacking. E.g., a table describing the treatment procedures for the 24 patients would be extremely helpful. While it appears that all were given propofol, others seem to have gotten fentanyl or other compounds. Time periods of the surgeries also appear to have varied from 30 min to 4 hours. A table describing such relevant properties for the patients used in this study would be highly informative.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 6, 2018
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Shawn Gomez
·
Jan 19, 2018
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
First, I apologize for the length of time it has taken for your manuscript to go through the review process - a number of challenges led to numerous delays. Moving forward, there are a significant number of questions regarding this work from both reviewers. While novelty is not a criteria for publication, it should be made much clearer where this work contributes and how this approach compares to other existing methods, so please fully address the questions and concerns of Reviewer 2. In addition to the reviewer comments, please consider the following: - More detail in the clinical data would be helpful - e.g., what was the breakdown of patients having a given type of drug administered? - Comparison to other methods would be very helpful in interpreting the results. Figures 3-6 essentially just provide a comparison of correlation coefficients between time series. While informative, it would be better to understand this approach in the context of other methods. - Figure 9 is not explained well. - Nearly all the figure captions could be improved by providing additional information within them so as to help interpretation of the corresponding figures. - Strengths and weaknesses of the approach and the study - indicate if there are potential issues with regard to the number of samples in this study and associated consequences, if any. Finally, the manuscript suffers from a significant number of grammatical and language issues. I have attached a partial set of potential changes that would be a start in improving readability. These suggestions are not comprehensive and I would strongly recommend having a professional service help with edits before resubmitting.
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 7, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This study is to address a novel method of EEG singals for monitoring the depth of anesthesia. The manuscript is well rewriten, and stucture of this manuscript is good.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Data and analysis is OK, the research issue is definition.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings of this study are OK.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I have carefully read this manscript. Authors used some existing method to analyze the EEG, including EMD and sample entropy, then used a ANN to model the sample entropy with BIS. I did not find any novel idea and method in this MS, and the sample size is small, too. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Sample entropy analysis for the estimating depth of anaesthesia through human EEG signal at different levels of unconsciousness during surgeries (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4817v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 23, 2017
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This paper studied a new method to assess the depth of anesthesia (DoA). Authors claimed that the SampEn feature derived from EEG is proved to be able to distinguish the selective traditional 3 stages of anesthesia. The reviewer thought the development of methods/algorithms for automatic classification of EEG is very important because of the large variability of the responses of patients to drugs and noxious stimuli during a surgery. Totally, the abstract is concise and clear for introducing the body of paper, the results sound interesting and conclusion was convincing. The manuscript is well organized and the logic is clear. I only have a couple of concerns I would like the authors to address before publication:
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1-The data is not relatively comprehensive. The database should be described in more detail. Please mention type of drugs used during different stage of anesthesia. 2-Introduction should provide more information regarding advantages and disadvantages of proposed method in comparison with the nonlinear measure with an application of depth of anesthesia. Actually, the introduction should provides sufficient research background about current studies of DoA system. 3-Additional information should be provided about the rationality that supports the selection signal processing techniques. What kind of properties can be evaluated by applying them? What is the justification to select the SampEn instead of the frequency-based band or other non-linear features? Describing the properties of the algorithms will help to understand the properties that must be present in the EEG signal that are related (correlation) to level of consciousness. A better approach is to describe the behavior of the EEG as a function of the depth of consciousness and apply the signal processing algorithms that are suitable to extract the features or the feature values. 4-Is there any preprocessing for EEG signal? It seem that there are many noise embedded in EEG signal.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
5-The validation of the proposed method presented in the manuscript is quite limited. Please compare your result with permutation entropy methods or recurrence analysis which have used by many authors in recent years. 6-In this paper, the authors have used ANN classifier. The comparison with existing classification methods, such as SVM and Random Forest, should be considered. 7-Discussion section should provide more information regarding advantages and disadvantages of proposed method in theory in comparison with the linear and other non-linear approach such as Permutation Entropy, Fractal measures and recurrence quantification analysis. 8-Statistical analysis is week and I recommend go through more.
Comments for the author
9-A brief summary of the significance of each figure and table in its heading would help readers to understand the figure and tables quickly without having go to the very details. 10-The manuscript has to go also through careful proof-reading as some of the text is hard to understand because of the grammatical problems. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Sample entropy analysis for the estimating depth of anaesthesia through human EEG signal at different levels of unconsciousness during surgeries (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4817v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 15, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
