Review History for MIPhy: identify and quantify rapidly evolving members of large gene families [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History MIPhy: identify and quantify rapidly evolving members of large gene families To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 28th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 3rd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 10th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 10th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Daniel Lahr
·
May 10, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear colleagues, Thank you for the corrections made to the original submission. I believe the manuscript is now more robust, clear and accessible to a wider audience. The issue regarding branch robustness raised by reviewer #2 remains unresolved, but clearly outside the scope of this communication. I consider it to be an interesting avenue for further development of the software. Thanks again and congratulations. Kind regards, dan # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Elena Papaleo, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 10, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Daniel Lahr
·
Apr 3, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear colleagues, Thank you for the submission of this interesting article. As the reviewers point out, the manuscript is very well presented and very close to a final format. Please make the clarification requested by reviewer #2 regarding borders of MIGs, and also correct the mistakes pointed out. The reviewer also points out an issue with bootstrap assessment, which you address in a satisfactory manner (I will not request implementation of a whole feature in this version of the software). However, the reviewer has a good point which also made me concerned as a potential user. Would it be possible to perhaps comment a little more on how the bootstraps of the original input tree may affect the outcome? If both the species tree and the gene-tree are robust, the outcome should be robust as well (or am I wrong?). But then, how does the program behave if the species tree is robust but the gene tree not so much, or vice-versa? Additionally, I have some comments of my own: 1. in methods section, you give command lines for several intermediate steps made using external software (clustal, etc). While command lines are always useful, I suggest actually explaining each parameter used (briefly). This will both reach a broader readership (people unconfortable with command lines), and also will make people confortable using other software for the same task (you may keep the command lines in there, but please explain also). 2. Figure 3 has indications of positive selection for specific sequences. I could not find out how you tested these sequences for positive seleciton. It may just be an outcome of the program (I unfortunately have not had time to test it), in which case, just please make this clear. dan
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 13, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Writing and organization were appropriate and professional throughout. Literature references were sufficient. Figures were adequate - Figure 1 was exceptional. Article was self-contained and generally presented well.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This article was basically a presentation of a new method for phylogenetic clustering of gene families, including method validation on 2 empirical datasets. The methodology was described in adequate detail and compared informally to other methods considering similar problems. No head-to-head method comparison was performed, which could have strengthened the results. Validation of the proposed method was not very formal, but mostly consisted of a description of how the proposed method 'correlated' with previous empirical results. The method validation analyses and discussion were adequate, but additional analyses - particularly more formal method evaluation using either empirical or simulated data - would strengthen the manuscript.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The proposed method was well-described. Validation of the method on empirical datasets was largely qualitative and would have benefitted from a quantitative assessment using benchmark empirical datasets or simulated data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The proposed methodology will probably be welcome in the field and does advance the rather esoteric methodology of gene-species tree reconciliation. Method validation would have been strengthened by including a formal assessment on empirical data or simulated data (ideally both), but the informal method assessment presented appears adequate for a methods presentation manuscript. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "MIPhy: identify and quantify rapidly evolving members of large gene families (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4873v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Vladimir Hampl ·
Apr 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article meets all standards set by the journal. I have no comments to the structure and text besides three really minor points. Line 232: Tg and Ts should be explained in the main text not only in the supplement. Line 321: What does the measure U stands for? Line 350: “…we could predict those with observable knock-ow phenotypes.” Could they specify how? Do they expect these genes to have always lowed instability score as in the case of collagens? If yes, could they explain, why they take this assumption.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The design of the study is clear and easy to follow. The method is described well in the manuscript and attached supplement, however I would like to ask for one important clarification. My lack of understanding may result from my poor understanding of some principles of the statistics behind. Matter of clarification: I think that I understand in general, how the events are assigned to nodes and how the score is calculated for a node g. What I do not understand is, how the borders of MIGs are defined. As this is critical for the whole paper, I would be happy if the authors could explain this more explicitly for readers less trained in in mat and statistics like me. The only imperfection of the tool, which I am able to recognise, is the fact that it does not take into account the robustness of the tree branching (measured e.g. in bootstraps). I would imagine that this feature would be useful particularly for assessing the events of incongruences. At this point they assume (Article S1, line 17) that “…incongruence is more likely than a duplication event followed by several independent loss events, so the latter is not considered as possible history.“ However, the latter is indeed a possible history, which should be in my opinion preferred over incongruence if the branch support for the daughter node(s) below the node of incongruence (n4 node in Figure S1) would be high. The executables and testing file are provided and downloadable. The online web tool seems to be working as described. The graphical interphase is nice and easy to operate. The calculations are fast as stated in the manuscript.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The paper describes a tool for defining a sensible units (MIG) in a tree of large gene family and for quantification of “speed” of evolution within such units. As the phylogenetic analyses of large gene families is often un-easy, having such tool is by all means a sensible idea. They provide analyses of two gene families, which apparently support the usefulness of the software. Future and other users will assess the value of the tooll in their targeted analyses. To me, the tool seems functional, the interface is well-arranged, interactive and easy to operate. However, I was testing it only on the testing data sets provided by authors. I would recommend using the software for analyses of large gene family phylogenies.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I propose minor revision but I feel it is actually very close to "accept". Cite this review as
Hampl V ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "MIPhy: identify and quantify rapidly evolving members of large gene families (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4873v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 28, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
