Review History for Unilateral application of an external pneumatic compression therapy improves skin blood flow and vascular reactivity bilaterally [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Unilateral application of an external pneumatic compression therapy improves skin blood flow and vascular reactivity bilaterally To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 14th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 23rd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 28th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 11th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tjeerd Boonstra
·
May 11, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have adequately addressed all reviewer comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 28, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tjeerd Boonstra
·
Mar 23, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers have raised several questions and comments to clarify and strengthen the argument that is made in the manuscript. Please follow their suggestions to improve the revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 17, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is well written, and easy to follow.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is sound, and data appear to have been carefully collected. There are a few lines needing clarification: In the study design, line 92-95, was the 30-min post FMD measures performed immediately following the EPC bout, or 30 mins later (i.e., 60 mins from start of EPC)? Lines 102-105, was the sham simply a control, or were EPC cuffs positioned and not inflated? I know it is indicated elsewhere in the Methods, but please clarify here too. Lines 142-143, include the version and company name for the FMD Studio software, I’m assuming QUIPU.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors back-up previous work from their laboratory in regards to the peripheral vascular changes following EPC. However, there are some recent reports that would be worth referencing in the manuscript: Lines 174-176, what was the rationale for utilizing an EPC pressure of 70 mmHg? A previous report (Credeur et al. J Spinal Cord Med, 2017) used a pressure of 120 mmHg (Intermittent Pneumatic Compression—IPC), and found a localized improvement in leg vascular health. Is there a threshold pressure for improvements? Please elaborate, either in this section or in Discussion. There is a fairly recent report (Rifkind et al. Nitric Oxide, 2014) which investigated the impact of leg IPC on systemic changes in NO-mediated markers, such as plasma nitrite, and vascular function in the arms. It would be worth incorporating this reference into your discussion of bilateral changes in leg FMD in response to unilateral EPC.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No further comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Unilateral application of an external pneumatic compression therapy improves skin blood flow and vascular reactivity bilaterally (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4878v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 19, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is an interesting study on physiological response to local therapeutic tissue compression. The background may be, according to the authors, clinical requirements. Had it been like that, more justification would be needed. In the present form it is not convincing, at least for the reviewer who is a clinician. It might be better to focus attention to purely physiological phenomena during local tissue compression.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The presented measuring methods have been chosen correctly and described sufficiently. What is lacking is a vague description of application of the compression sleeve. Were chambers inflated sequentially, how fast, distal to proximal pressure gradient? What was the skin temperature immediately after removal of the sleeve as it goes down within 1-3 minutes after exposure to ambient temperature. Another words, how much heat was produced by the inflating sleeve at the chamber-skin interface (mechanical to heat). How much heat energy was supplied to the investigated person by compression? How much heat energy was retained in the part of limb covered by the sleeve for 30 minutes? All this is easy to calculate. Heat generation and distribution process?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Compression resulting in tissue deformation and mobile tissue fluid mobilization provides energy which is fast dissipated all over the body due to blood perfusion and brings about a systemic response to heat energy input. Subsequently, heat excess is being eliminated in other parts of the body exposed to temperature lower than that of core tissues. No wonder that increase in temperature through dilated skin microvasculature in the contralateral was observed. This type of "consensual" reaction has been known for long.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The problem of increase of tissue elasticity during therapeutic limb tissue compression has been widely discussed. No consensus has been reached. Some consider it to be caused by increase of tissue temperature (mechanical to heat energy) , others calculated forces and found that total heat retained in tissues is negligible as it is immediately washed out. The reviewer suggests: 1. Introduction: focus widely on physiology and not clinical aspects 2. Methods: add more detailed description of compression 3. Results: try to calculate the heat energy balance during compression 4. Discussion: concentrate upon heat balance basing on the relevant contemporary literature Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Unilateral application of an external pneumatic compression therapy improves skin blood flow and vascular reactivity bilaterally (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4878v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 14, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
