Review History for Discovery of digestive enzymes in carnivorous plants with focus on proteases [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Discovery of digestive enzymes in carnivorous plants with focus on proteases To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 13th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 5th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 16th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 16th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
May 16, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All critical points raised by both reviewers were adequately addressed in the rebuttal letter and the manuscript was revised accordingly. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Sheila McCormick, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 16, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Apr 5, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please address all the points raised by both reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 26, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This review provides a good overview of research so far in the discovery of enzymes from carnivorous plants. Overall, this is a solid contribution to the literature and puts in context recent work from several groups focusing on different carnivorous plants. In practice, the focus is mainly on proteases. It may make sense to either change the title to reflect this emphasis, or if not, references to some of the work on chitinases from carnivorous plants should be added, for example: I. Matusíková, J. Salaj, J. Moravcíková, L. Mlynárová, J. Nap, J. Libantová, Tentacles of in vitro-grown round-leaf sundew (Drosera rotundifolia L.) show induction of chitinase activity upon mimicking the presence of prey, Planta 222 (2005) 1020–1027. H. Eilenberg, S. Pnini-Cohen, S. Schuster, A. Movtchan, A. Zilberstein, Isolation and characterization of chitinase genes from pitchers of the carnivorous plant Nepenthes khasiana, J. Exp. Bot. 57 (2006) 2775–2784. S. Rottloff, R. Stieber, H. Maischak, F.G. Turini, G. Heubl, A. Mithöfer, Functional characterization of a class III acid endochitinase from the traps of the carnivorous pitcher plant genus, Nepenthes, J. Exp. Bot. 62 (2011) 4639–4647. K. Ishisaki, Y. Honda, H. Taniguchi, N. Hatano, T. Hamada, Heterogonous expression and characterization of a plant class IV chitinase from the pitcher of the carnivorous plant Nepenthes alata, Glycobiology 22 (2012) 345–351. T. Renner, C.D. Specht, Molecular and functional evolution of class I chitinases for plant carnivory in the caryophyllales, Mol. Biol. Evol. 29 (10) (2012) 2971–2985. P. Paszota, M. Escalante-Perez, L.R. Thomsen, M.W. Risør, A. Dembski, L. Sanglas, T.A. Nielsen, H. Karring, I.B. Thøgersen, R. Hedrich, J.J. Enghild, I. Kreuzer, K.W. Sanggaard, Secreted major Venus flytrap chitinase enables digestion of arthropod prey, Biochim. Biophys. Acta. - Proteins and Proteomics 1844 (2) (2014) 374–383. M. Unhelkar, V. Duong, K. Enendu, J. Kelly, S. Tahir, C. Butts, R. Martin, Structure prediction and network analysis of chitinases from the Cape sundew, Drosera capensis, Biochim. Biophys. Acta - General Subjects 1861 (2017) 636–643.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Not applicable - review paper.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Not applicable - review paper.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
If possible, light editing for English usage is recommended. This concern is stylistic rather than essential for understanding the paper, however. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Discovery of digestive enzymes in carnivorous plants with focus on proteases (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4914v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 5, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Authors have discussed the classification of carnivorous plants by trapping methods, they also summarized how digestive enzyme discovered and characterized as well as the potential application. Although authors did a complex review on this topic, there are several logical issues related to the review. 1.There is no need to discuss the classification of the carnivorous plants by trapping methods. Authors talked about the enzyme discovery by their families and species, not trapping methods, so the first part has no relationship with the second part. I would suggest either remove it or write the classification by families. 2.The key point of this review is to discuss the enzyme discover, authors states all discovered enzyme with their common names such as protease or phosphatase, does the structure of each enzyme discovered from different species the same? Can you find the same enzyme in other places like in animals? Authors should provide the structures of several enzymes. 3.In table 3, authors should list the name of each protease from different species, the enzyme should have difference because the conditions listed are different. Same requirement applies to Chitinase and lipase as well phosphatase. 4.The main purpose of this review is to discuss the potential application of digestive enzyme from carnivorous plants, however, in table 4, authors also listed the protease from other source such as animal and microbial, this doesn’t make any sense. 5.The language need to improved, a lot of worlds are missing.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
not applied
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
not applied
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
not applied Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Discovery of digestive enzymes in carnivorous plants with focus on proteases (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4914v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 13, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
