Review History for Shift in VEGFA isoform balance towards more angiogenic variants is associated with tumor stage and differentiation of human hepatocellular carcinoma [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Shift in VEGFA isoform balance towards more angiogenic variants is associated with tumor stage and differentiation of human hepatocellular carcinoma To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 10th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 10th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on April 22nd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 16th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Shree Ram Singh
·
May 16, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your revised manuscript is acceptable in current form. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 22, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Shree Ram Singh
·
Feb 10, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please carefully modified the text and presentation as suggested by reviewer#1. As suggested by reviewer#2, please perform a Western blot analysis to semi-quantitatively analyze VEGFA isoforms and correlate with the HCC properties. Provide more details on the characterization and validation of the tumor tissue in the materials and methods section as suggested by reviewer#3. Reviewer #3 also suggested to demonstrated how VEGF-A189 specifically is regulated, therefore, either please discuss as future experiments will be done or provide evidence if you can. Clearly describe the impact of your findings in the manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 17, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Article has clear structure, provided with literature references, conclusions are supported with the data. Most of the raw data shared with the exception of clinicopathological data for each patient - instead, authors summarize those feature in Table 1.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Research questions are clearly defined: authors sought to analyze distribution of different isoforms of VEGFA in HCC and adjacent non-tumor tissues. Elaborated methods were used to quantify the transcripts, those methods are described with sufficient details.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Findings are explained and supported by the data. Statistical analysis could have more details (see comments below).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I only have certain minor comments regarding the presentation of the results and methods: 1) Description of primers in Table S1: it may be a bit confusing for the reader that the same primers are shown under different names (for example - VEGFA-total, VEGFA-intron5, VEGFA-189, VEGFA-165, VEGFA-121- is all the same primer). 2) Figure 1A - dashed lines continuing exon 8b might imply presence of other exons which is not the case 3) Figure S1 - for easier understanding, might be useful to mark the heteroduplex band as well 4) Figure 2B - on the left plot, maybe worth showing VEGFA-xxxb distribution for both tissues (like on the right plot) 5) For Table S2, authors should give better explanation for what exactly is shown in the "Unique sequence region" of the table. The sequence provided there is shorter than the length indicated in "PCR product" column (for example, for the row marked "VEGFA-iso (523 bp)" the sequence is 228 bp only, etc.) - I guess it's probably limitation of sequencing - but this should be explained 6) Methods and data of Table 2 should be better explained. For example, what measure was used for the "change" - fold change, log2, etc? Which variables were used as continuous, categorical, or discreet? As authors show Spearman's correlation, I assume all the data was ranked - but this should be explained explicitly. 7) To visualize correlation with clinicopathological properties, it could be helpful to add corresponding color bands on the heatmaps (Fig. 2D, Fig. 3C) 8) Right barplots at Fig. 3B might be confusing (one would assume to sum up values within one bar which is not the case). As one alternative, authors could use a scatterplot instead: each case would be represented by a dot with each axis corresponding to a tissue type. 9) Authors performed valuable work to determine absolute number of copies for each transcript. It would be interesting to estimate approximate number of copies per cell or at least per mg of tissue: this would give reference potentially helpful for future researchers. 10) In contrast to literature data about other tissues, authors did not find significant VEGFA-xxxb expression in both normal and tumor liver tissues - it's probably worth to mention in the abstract. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Shift in VEGFA isoform balance towards more angiogenic variants is associated with tumor stage and differentiation of human hepatocellular carcinoma (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4915v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Dmitriy Madera ·
Jan 30, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript "Shift in VEGFA isoform balance towards more angiogenic variants is associated with tumor stage and differentiation of human hepatocellular carcinoma" is well written in plain and professional English. It provides a short, but sufficient overview of the background, with relevant references. The figures are of sufficient quality, mostly quantification of the raw data (which is also provided). The hypothesis is clearly formulated and addresses an important issue of different roles of splice variants in regulation of VEGFA role in HC progression. In addressing this issue, clear questions are answered with robust results.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
While the semi-quantitative and quantitative analysis of the VEGFA isoforms is well done, the analysis is limited to the RNA level. This is problematic for 2 reasons: 1) There is no corroboration of the data with independent methods. This may result in biasing due to the chosen methodology. 2) It is well known that VEGFA in particular is regulated very extensively at all levels of expression: splicing, transcription AND translation (for review see Nucleic Acids Res. 2013 Sep; 41(17): 7997–8010). Moreover, VEGFA is active at a protein level rather than at the mRNA level. Therefore, I suggest the authors confirm the results they obtained with a simple semi-quantitative Western blot analyis. They may use total VEGFA antibodies and distinguish isoforms with SDS-PAGE electrophoresis by size, which is a trivial task. It is important to confirm close correlation between the qPCR and the Western blot data, as well as the correlation with the tumor characteristics (see below). Otherwise, the obtained results are quantified and analyzed well.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The most important finding of the article is shown in table 2. It gives validity to the data obtained, confirms the original hypothesis and even provides some predictability power to the obtained results on VEGFA isoforms. It is important to notice, however, that the best obtained correlation coefficients and the p-values are not very strong. They are within the 0.05 standard (for the p-values), but in all but one cases higher than 0.01, for instance. This is especially critical because the authors are analyzing their data for correlation against 16 tumor sample characteristics, so a possibility of finding a low statistically significant correlation by chance is high. The data can be strengthened if the authors, again, provide a similar analysis using quantification on a protein level. This would be an independent analysis, which, together with the already produced data, could make it more robust and biologically relevant.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In general, I like the article for its logical structure, sound data and clinical relevance. However, in my opinion the data needs to be corroborated with an independent method and on another level of gene expression. Therefore, I suggest to use A Western blot analysis to semi-quantitatively analyze VEGFA isoforms and correlate with the HCC properties. Cite this review as
Madera D ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Shift in VEGFA isoform balance towards more angiogenic variants is associated with tumor stage and differentiation of human hepatocellular carcinoma (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4915v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Lasse Jensen ·
Feb 9, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The language is clear and professional throughout the manuscript, litterature references of relevance to the topic are provided, and the background information presented is sufficient to provide context. The structures is professional and the article is self-contained.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research question is well defined, and the statistical Foundation for the study is solid. It would have been easier to interpret the expression levels of VEGF-A isoforms if a better description of the samples had been given. How did the authors know that the samples were in fact tumor or non-tumor samples (this can be very difficult to judge from simply looking macroscopically at the tissue). What extent of tumor cells versus non-tumor cells were present in the tumor tissue? What extent of necrosis/viable cells was present in the tumor tissue? The selection, characterization and validation of the tumor tissue should be described in more detail in the materials and methods section. We are asked to judge whether the research fills an identified knowledge gap. It is known that VEGF-A is deregulated in many tumors, and the authors also make this clear in both the introduction and discussion. Is it a knowledge gap how VEGF-A189 specifically is regulated? Unless the authors can demonstrate that the down-regulation of VEGF-A189 without the up-regulation of other VEGF-isoforms, as what the authors are demonstrating in their work, leads to a difference in angiogenesis, it is hard to see how the results fill a knowledge gap. That does not mean, however, that the results could not be proven to do so in the future.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The impact of the findings are not clear at present, as the functional consequence of reduced VEGF-A189 levels are not known. The data, however, seem robust and statistically sound, and does seem to impact tumor progression (or advanced progression may impact VEGF-A189 production). The conclusions and discussions are however done at a reasonable level, without attempts to overreach.
Cite this review as
Jensen L ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Shift in VEGFA isoform balance towards more angiogenic variants is associated with tumor stage and differentiation of human hepatocellular carcinoma (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4915v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 10, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
