Review History for Prevalence of Entamoeba species in captive primates in zoological gardens in the UK [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Prevalence of Entamoeba species in captive primates in zoological gardens in the UK To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 12th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 23rd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on June 30th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 30th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Erika Braga
·
Jun 30, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript was adequately reorganized and all the reviewer`s comments were well addressed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 30, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Erika Braga
·
Jun 23, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I would like to request a modification of organizational structure of Material & Methods and Results Sections aiming to turn them more attractive to the readers. Please, create subitens such as Study Areas and Sampling Design, Parasite Identification, Molecular Analyses, Phylogenetic and Statistical Analyses intead Experiment 1 and Experiment 2.
label_author_1
Claudio De Liberato ·
Jun 16, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The paper by Regan et al. is based on a good data set and clear. Reported findings are relevant. However, some changes should be made prior to publication. 1)Lines 76-77: should be deleted. These methods do exist and are nowadays commonly used; 2)Line 228: why “30 primates sampled”?? In the whole manuscript (also only few lines before at Line 225) the number 37 is reported; 3)Lines 228-229: I don’t think that Levecke et al recorded a 36% prevalence of E. histolytica!!! Probably they found a 36% prevalence of E. histolytica group. This is a very relevant difference, a matter of life or death I would say!! Please, write properly; 4)Lines 304-308: should be deleted. Too obvious and redundant. The concept is already clear at line 304; 5)Lines 316-321: This phrase doesn’t fit with the explanation of the higher prevalence of uninucleated cyst-producing Entamoeba species and E. coli; re-infection for transmission from other primates of the zoo could regard all Entamoeba species, not only those presenting higher prevalence post treatment. This phrase should be deleted; 6)Lines 388-392: should be deleted. Too long, too speculative, obvious and useless; 7)Table 1: Why scientific names only for some species? This is very strange. In general, as this is a paper for an international journal, scientific names are much more important than common ones (than could be totally omitted). Please, provide scientific names correctly. Cite this review as
De Liberato C ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Prevalence of Entamoeba species in captive primates in zoological gardens in the UK (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.492v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 18, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Interesting research paper reporting notable prevalence of Entamoeba infection in captive non-human primates in the United Kingdom. Since some Entamoeba species have zoonotic potential, the observations are of importance with respect to public health.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The submission describes original primary research. There are only some minor points that should be improved: 1. Abstract is too long and should be significantly shortened. 2. The manuscript should be better organized (avoid dividing the paper into the parts titled Experiment 1 and 2).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data are well presented and adequately discussed.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Prevalence of Entamoeba species in captive primates in zoological gardens in the UK (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.492v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 12, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
