Review History for Diversity and abundance of conspicuous macrocrustaceans on coral reefs differing in level of degradation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Diversity and abundance of conspicuous macrocrustaceans on coral reefs differing in level of degradation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 28th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 11th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 4th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 17th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Magnus Johnson
·
May 17, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You have done an excellent job of responding to the reviewer's comments in particular highlighting the fact that you were looking at conspicuous species and dealing with the few questionable identifications. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Patricia Gandini, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 15, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no further comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no further comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no further comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors have adequately addressed my review comments, and I thus recommend publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Diversity and abundance of conspicuous macrocrustaceans on coral reefs differing in level of degradation (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4922v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 4, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Magnus Johnson
·
Mar 11, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both reviewers have made valuable comments that you should address. In doing so you will greatly increase the value of the report. In particular I think you should pay attention to the commentrs relating to the identification (and possible mis-identification) of species observed and the analysis of reef complexity.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 9, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
An excellent study with few shortcomings, written in good academic English.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Although Underwater Visual Census techniques are used in a number of studies on Decapoda, they do have a large amount of inherent bias towards highly mobile, conspicuous and easy to identify species. It is therefore not surprising that only one species of Alpheus is recorded. Unquestionably however, several more species of that genus would have been running around on the transect lines, moving under rocks and rubble. It would be good to see some critical text discussing how sampling limitations of a UVC could potentially influence the results.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Asides from the above comment on UVC, the findings seem in line with other work.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Although multivariate statistics are highly appropriate for this type of study, I would not think that the calculated diversity indices would be parametric in nature and thus should not be analysed with ANOVA. It would be good to include sources used to identify the species, was this largely based on UW photography guides or was primary taxonomic literature used? In this regard it appears odd that Mithraculus coryphe was the most abundant species, usually M.sculptus is far more abundant. Perhaps also discuss how the divers were trained in identification, and any bias between them. I would also query why UW photography was not used to get an ID for some taxa, certainly a taxonomist could easily have identified the majority to genus, if not species level of those listed at family level and above. Using "Caridean A" is rather odd as shrimps can easily be identified to family level, and that does raise questions about the ability of the divers to correctly ID taxa. And finally, Cinetorhynchus fasciatus (please not correct spelling of genus) does not occur in the Atlantic ! There are only two known species of that genus in the Atlantic, C.rigens and C.manningi. Again this raises some questions about the accuracy of UVC identifications used herein Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Diversity and abundance of conspicuous macrocrustaceans on coral reefs differing in level of degradation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4922v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 10, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This manuscript provides a description of the abundance of crustaceans on two coral reefs that differ in benthic community structure and explores the role of degradation and roughness on crustaceans. Despite decades of studies on coral reefs, studies like this one still are lacking, and reef ecologists continue to focus on fishes and stony corals so that quantitative data on other taxa remain rare. This reason alone makes a compelling reason to publish this study, and indeed the manuscript is well written and very nicely supported by literature. However, I cannot support publication in this format: 1. This study remains an analysis of two reefs at a single time point using 30 transects at each site. The authors need to make a stronger case that this study has general value. I am confident this can be done, but there seems little attempt to do this in the current version. Even the notion that this is a contrast of a degraded and less degraded reef is ambiguous, as no data to this effect are presented, although some citations to this effect are added at line 127. It would greatly strengthen this study to add a little time series context to Fig. 2. 2. The analysis of benthic roughness by the “HAS” index is exceptionally weak, and even the application of the better-known rugosity index is done in a non standard way. This is surprising since one of the authors has published a very nice review on reef roughness. At a time when ecologists are using increasingly sophisticated tools to quantify benthic roughness, the HAS method, which is just a qualitative ranking, is not an acceptable tool. The rugosity method was conducted with un-weighted transect which would not conform to the benthos (this method is usually done with a weighted chain). The same tape was used to measure benthic community structure, and the low resolution of this method (10 points 10 cm apart down a 10 m line) surely contributed to the high variance in the benthic data (Fig. 2). Taken together, it is hardly surprising that the reefs did not differ in roughness. In general, given the simplicity of this study and the limited generality of the outcome, this would need to be greatly trimmed in length to justify publication.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Weak
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Very narrow -- two reefs one time point. Generality needs to be established.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Diversity and abundance of conspicuous macrocrustaceans on coral reefs differing in level of degradation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4922v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 28, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
