Review History for A new therocephalian (Gorynychus masyutinae gen. et sp. nov.) from the Permian Kotelnich locality, Kirov Region, Russia [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A new therocephalian ( Gorynychus masyutinae gen. et sp. nov.) from the Permian Kotelnich locality, Kirov Region, Russia To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 15th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 4th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 16th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 18th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Hans-Dieter Sues
·
May 18, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised version of the manuscript is acceptable for publication. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Andy Farke, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 16, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Hans-Dieter Sues
·
Apr 4, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please respond to the reviewers' concerns point by point when preparing a revised version of the manuscript. Please check the data matrix as one referee could not access it.
label_author_1
Jun Liu ·
Mar 22, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The original matrix file cannot be read directly by Paup, please change it.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The phylogenetic analysis should include all taxa such as Shiguangnathus.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This is a new therocephalian species, and it is correctly described. I am not convinced it is the sister-taxon to Eutherocephalia. The author did not mention Scylacosuchus moved as the sister taxon of Akidognathidae. This needs to be discussed. If they coded the new species in the matrix of Liu and Abdala (2017), the result is slightly different: Gorynychus is more basal than Scylacosauridae in most cases. There should be a paragraph discussing the position of the new species based on the morphology, other than just the phylogenetic analysis. One error is on postfrontal, the author described it but later say it is absent.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Other see annotated pdf file. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Liu J ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "A new therocephalian (Gorynychus masyutinae gen. et sp. nov.) from the Permian Kotelnich locality, Kirov Region, Russia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4933v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
fernando abdala ·
Apr 4, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The figures are good but I would like to see close up of the postcanines as it is indicated as one important feature in the description. Other suggestions are in the uploaded pdf.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
In the discussion it is assumed a correlation with the Pristerognathus AZ, even when in the introduction it is said that the correlation with the Tropidostoma AZ seems more likely. Considering one or the other case change the conclussion about the timing in the evolutionof Eutherocephalia. Thus if the correlation is with the Pristerognathus AZ then the conclusion about the early evolution of the group in Laurasia is supported but if the correlation is with Tropidostoma AZ then this conclussion will change or woud be less strong.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a very important research of a new therocephalian from the Kotelnich fauna from Russia. It is clearly written with a clear and logic structure, presenting in an apropriate way the subject. I present all my comments and suggestions in the attached pdf. The article should be published after minor revision. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
abdala f ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "A new therocephalian (Gorynychus masyutinae gen. et sp. nov.) from the Permian Kotelnich locality, Kirov Region, Russia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4933v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 15, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
