Review History for Assessment of the ecotoxicity of urban estuarine sediment using benthic and pelagic copepod bioassays [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Assessment of the ecotoxicity of urban estuarine sediment using benthic and pelagic copepod bioassays To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 7th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 25th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 16th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 21st, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marcia Marques
·
May 21, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The improvements and corrections required by the reviewers as well as the recommendations made by the Editor were included in the revised version. Therefore, the decision is to accept the manuscript for publication in its current format. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Patricia Gandini, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 16, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marcia Marques
·
Apr 25, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The paper represents a valuable contribution to the area of aquatic ecotoxicology. Besides a number of corrections suggested by the reviewers, it is necessary to update the literature survey including recent publications and improving discussion.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 28, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This study brings a contribution for aquatic ecotoxicology using copepod bioassays in estuarine sediment biomonitoring.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The term "in situ" is not applicable to this study, because the tests were carried out in laboratory. Please verify the use of this term in the text (e.g., L 59-60) and in the abstract (L. 30). Methodology: - How long the samples were stored until the tests were carried out? (L. 88). - Please provide details about elutriate preparation (L. 94). - Please provide the author of the species cited in this study. - What is the source of "mixed algae"? Which species? (L.112) - Please cite the protocol that was followed to cultivate the aquatic organisms in lab (L. 103-113). - Please provide more details about the sediment tests to allow the reproductibility of this study by other researches (L 114-121). - Please standardize the terms. E.g., "waterbourne toxicity tests" (L. 123) should be replaced by "elutriates toxicity tests". - These references are not provided in the reference section: HBCR 2014 (L. 50), ASTM 2000 (L. 125), USEPA & USACE 1998 (L. 125), ISO 16778 (L. 133), ISO 2016 (L. 199). - What the term "development rations" means? (L. 142). - Please provide a reference to the statistical analysis (L. 171-178). - Tables 1 and 2 are exchanged in the text (L. 182 and 186). - L. 115, please complete “Chandler & Green” (1996). - L. 196, "arsenic" or "cadmium"? - L. 252-254. Please clarify. Why lower concentrations of metals induced higher DNA breaks than higher concentrations? - What is the reason for effects on survival but not in development? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Assessment of the ecotoxicity of urban estuarine sediment using benthic and pelagic copepod bioassays (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4936v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
André Luís Salomão ·
Apr 8, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The study presented in the manuscript can be considered in correct English. However, line 21, the species name is misspelled; line 38, should be lives; line 123 is waterborne. The Literature references are adequate (n = 70), however there are many studies with more than 5 years (<2013, n = 47) and few current studies (= 2013, n = 23). I believe that “water column toxicity” is not the correct term, due to the fact that you are working with elutriate (line 194).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
In the material and methods section, line 111 to 113 (test species), you should improve the description of the protocol for cultivation of these species in the laboratory (e.g.: photoperiod; room's conditions or hatchery equipment used; mixed algae: which species,...). Some of them, you describe later in the toxicity test section, but are missing in the test species section.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Please check, I believe the order of tables 1 and 2 have been changed, as well as table S1. Lines 199 to 202, you started describing the results of Fig 3B and after Fig. 3A. I believe you should change the order of the graphs in the figure or in the text, to be clearer for the reader. Line 202, please add the letter "B" when you mentioned "Fig. 3" (Fig. 3B). Line 210, you mentioned that a significant difference was identified at some endpoints of DNA damage. I think the tail length graph is missing. Also in line 210, you mentioned that "there were no difference between the tail moment from the negative control and the estuary sites" (Fig. 4). I believe you should also include the tail intensity. However in line 212, please check, but I believe you could not affirm that the Humber Drain samples induced DNA damage as indicated by the tail intensity. In table 3, "*" is missing in the concentration of Zinc of Humber Drain (75 µg/L). In the discussion section, you mentioned high and low concentration and effects of other studies to discuss your results. However, you should include the results of those studies to determine or to be clearer what you consider as high or low values.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The study presented in the manuscript can be considered relevant. Although, the references used in the introduction and discussion may be more current. The study also indicated that further studies are needed to conclude which chemical compounds were most influential in the toxic effects on the copepods of the estuarine sediment. Since the chemical compounds analyzed did not fully answer this question. Due to the fact that the reference area presented some metals and the toxicity was detected in some bioassays, this should have been better discussed in the text. Cite this review as
Salomão AL ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Assessment of the ecotoxicity of urban estuarine sediment using benthic and pelagic copepod bioassays (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4936v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 7, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
