Review History for Adherence to an overweight and obesity treatment: how to motivate a patient? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Adherence to an overweight and obesity treatment: how to motivate a patient? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 22nd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 22nd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on June 29th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 4th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Josep Tur
·
Jul 4, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The paper has been much improbed by the authors after they considered referees' suggestions. It is now suitable to be published in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 29, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Josep Tur
·
Jun 22, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
This is an interesting paper and suitable to be published in PeerJ, but not in its present form. It needs some ammendmends before being accepted.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 6, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
It is a simple but very practical conclusion from a nutritional point of view and in order to motivate diet work, purpose often difficult for a large segment of the population.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I wanted to know how to select drew 16 weeks for the control time of the study. Line 61: it is stated that a nutritional assessment was made, it is important to specify the type of dietary questionnaire used. Line 63: it is stated that a nutritional program that was used. It is important to detail what was the program used and references of dyetetic recommendations also used.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
in the study are evident significant differences in the ratio waist / hip before and after the regime? perhaps could include the data in the table before and after weight loss and comment on the text given the importance of this nutritional index
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Adherence to an overweight and obesity treatment: how to motivate a patient? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.495v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 17, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
There is not shown a control group without WC measurement to affirm that "Patients do not dropout treatment because they start to see physical results in waist decrease". Self-perception data was also not included in the study to affirm this.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper is interesting and the results highlight the limitations of weight as a measurement in weight loss programs. The manuscript is well written and structured. However, some major modifications should be made. (1) Did the authors analysed the reasons why patients (n = 100) dropout or fail in the loss program? Did they not see physical results in waist circumference (WC) decrease? The manuscript would be benefit if the authors include this information. (2) The aim of the study is “To determine the adhesion parameters in a treatment to improve body image in obese patients at a nutrition clinic”. However, the aim is more closely “To explore anthropometric changes in normal-weight, overweight and obese subjects who not dropout or failed a weight loss program over the 16 treatment weeks to improve patient’s motivation and treatment adherence”. (3) The authors affirmed “Patients do not dropout treatment because they start to see physical results in waist decrease”. However, there is not shown a control group without WC measurement to affirm this. Moreover, there were not statistical significant differences in hip circumference (HC) and WC loss (%) among the three BMI groups (normal-weight, overweight, and obesity). In contrast, there were statistical significant differences in weight loss (%) and waist-to-hip ratio. Then, it can be concluded that it was WC changes that adhere obese patients to the weight loss program? (4) The manuscript should be benefit if the authors could include data on body image and self-perception, as well as about motivation. Some minor modifications should be also made in the manuscript: Background 1. Line 6: “Body Mass Index (BMI, kg/m2), photographs (…)” instead of “Body Mass Index (BMI), photographs (…)”. 2. Line 11: “In 67 patients from 25=BMI<30 group” instead of “In 67 patients from <25BMI<30 group”. 2. Line 12: “In 42 patients from BMI” instead of “42 patients from BMI”. 3. Line 15: “(…), with significant differences between the three groups (p<0.001)” instead of “(…), with significant differences between the three groups (p=0.000)”. Introduction 1. Line 17: “Overweight (body mass index, BMI 25-30 kg/m2) and obesity (BMI =30 kg/m2) are preventable diseases defined as (…)” instead of “Overweight (BMI =25) and obesity (BMI =30) are preventable diseases defined as (…)”. 2. Line 38: “In morbid obesity (BMI =40 kg/m2)” instead of “In morbid obesity (BMI >40)”. Material and methods 1. Some information has been repeated in “Subjects” and “Methods” sections. The manuscript should be benefit if the authors summarize these sections. Results 1. The authors could also include the waist-to-height ratio parameter. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Adherence to an overweight and obesity treatment: how to motivate a patient? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.495v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 22, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
