Review History for How well do force fields capture the strength of salt bridges in proteins? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History How well do force fields capture the strength of salt bridges in proteins? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 10th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 25th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 23rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 24th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Emanuele Paci
·
May 24, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Kresten, thank you for revising the manuscript thoroughly according to the reviewers comments. I particularly appreciate that you performed additional simulations to address the comments. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 23, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Emanuele Paci
·
Mar 25, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The two reviews obtained for this manuscript are between positive and very positive, but with important suggestions and relevant criticisms that need to be addressed.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 21, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This paper is written in good English and easy to follow. The new work is clearly placed within the field, even including some historic contributions. Art work is relevant and well prepared.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The work performed is original and appears sufficiently detailed to allow reproduction, but lacks key simulations to support the claim made in the title.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Specifically, the paper deals with the interrogation of salt bridges on the surface of the protein GB1 by MD simulations with several force fields (FFs) and solvent models. Despite observations of several salt bridges in PGB1 by X-ray crystallography, NMR failed to detect the presence of stable ionic bridges, meaning that these interactions in solution are weak or absent (main conclusion from the work by Tomlinson 2009). Free energy calculations in the current work argue that MD overestimates ionic contributions with the FFs tested. This can be considered an extension of the study by Chong and co-workers (Debiec 2014) on amino acid analogues, with ditto conclusion. The authors did not address the fundamental question whether simulations in a crystal form of the protein could have explained the difference of the solution NMR and X-ray observations. This would be one way to test whether the MD force fields are any good. A second shortcoming is that the authors have not included the newly developed ff15ipq FF, which is supposed to have mitigated problems of overemphasizing energetics of salt bridges (Debiec 2016). Making these two important controls would allow the authors to make true their title: How well do force fields capture the strength of salt bridges in proteins? With the current data the question is still open.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "How well do force fields capture the strength of salt bridges in proteins? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4967v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
•The overall clarity of the manuscript is high, the figures are high quality, well labeled and described, and the authors’ raw data is provided. •The authors provide context including the importance of salt bridges and prior simulation work. However, it should be made clearer that the work described was focused on fixed-charge force fields, and the benefits and limitations of this approach briefly explained.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
•The research described is relevant and overall well-designed, and the methods described in sufficient detail. •In lines 237-241, the authors state that: In order to be conservative and not overestimate the calculated values by including e.g. solvent mediated interactions (as it is unclear how much they contribute to the experiments), we included only conformations where the nitrogen–oxygen distance is < 5.0 A°. The selected cutoff of a minimum nitrogen-oxygen distance 5.0 Å is actually generous and includes conformations in which the nitrogen and oxygen are not in direct contact. A more conservative cutoff would be 4 Å ; this will yield a decrease in the populations listed in Table 1, but should not impact the conclusions. The use of the minimum nitrogen-oxygen distance as the coordinate should also be clarified.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
•The authors’ findings are robust and validated by testing of alternative simulation methods, and their conclusions are well-stated. As in the introduction, the conclusions should make clear that their findings apply to fixed-charge force fields in particular. It is worth mentioning that work on model systems, including the cited Debiec et al. 2016 paper, suggests that polarizable force fields yield salt bridge interactions in better agreement with experiment than the tested fixed-charge force fields.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
•The authors should provide some discussion of the potential impact on their results of differences between the bonded parameters of the tested force fields, which may impact the conformations accessible to the interacting side chains of interest. •In lines 224-228 the authors state that: In the case of the K39–E35 and K58–D55 pairs, additional minima are observed where the shortest of the two oxygen–nitrogen distances is ~ 6 A° – 10 A° (Figs. 1C and 1D). These correspond to solvent-separated ion pairs, where one or more solvent molecules sit between the amino acid side chains between the pairs and effecting the electrostatic interacting of the cation and anion (Collins, 1997; Marcus & Hefter, 2006; Zhou & Pang, 2017). Based on the results shown in Supplemental Figure 2, the solvent-separated ion pair is also observed for the K12-E23 salt bridge, most clearly for CHARMM27 and AMBER ff03w. In addition, the location of the minima, in terms of the shortest oxygen-nitrogen distance, is closer to 4-7 Å rather than 6-10 Å. •Supplemental Figure 2 refers to “Amber ff03” rather than “Amber ff03w” Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "How well do force fields capture the strength of salt bridges in proteins? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4967v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 10, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
