Review History for High prevalence of Lynx rufus gammaherpesvirus 1 in wild Vermont bobcats [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History High prevalence of Lynx rufus gammaherpesvirus 1 in wild Vermont bobcats To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 5th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 12th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 17th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 25th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Fernando Spilki
·
May 25, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The article describes novel and relevant information, and it will of course be of interest for those studying herpesviruses as well as for people dealing with the conservation of wild felids. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by David Roberts, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 17, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Fernando Spilki
·
Mar 12, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please consider the corrections proposed by the referees to make the study design more clear, specially those regarding sampling and other aspects of the methods.
label_author_1
Patricia Pesavento ·
Feb 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is well written, and well referenced.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is straightforward and the cases sufficient for significance. For both wildlife health, and for a relatively new and unknown virus, I laud the authors for the large study group required for the importance of the results. A few specific questions that relate to interpretation of the results: 1. The authors should address the choice of spleen. If it is serving as an ersatz for blood in this case then that needs to be justified (what is the correlation in other studies?). I can think of reasons why that would not be correlative, and couldn't find any data about the case for FcGHV. 2. There is no description of how spleens were collected or stored. The inclusion criteria for these wildlife samples should be added. 3. The "trend" for higher loads in younger animals has to be assessed in the context of sample choice and autolysis.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
With the caveats stated above in experimental design, the study is useful and well organized. Presence and prevalence are solid. The significance of the genetic variants is still unclear (to me, as a lay reader) and should could be stated in the conclusions (unless I am simply missing the boat). Do you experts believe that the number of field samples of the variants clearly establishes criteria for significant strain variation? Is the jury still out on potential for viral evolution? This is one of the most interesting questions, I think, because if "species jumping" (if that can be defined) in cats is associated with viral impact or virulence, then these studies could be predictive of important species crowding problems and conservation issues.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Minor comments: 54: "....may result in pathology". Pathology is the study of disease, so rather GHV may result in disease, but not in "pathology". 71-74: "Serologic analysis determined that approximately half of domestic cats that harbored FcaGHV1 specific antibodies did not have detectable DNA in circulation,suggesting that approximately 30% of cats across the US have been exposed to FcaGHV" This is a non-sequitor unless I am missing the point? 82-84: Not sure that the statement "...this is the first attempt to document the presence of GHVs in wild or domestic cats in the Northeast United States" is necessary. The significance of the data stands on its own, and since your own previous studies made conclusions about the presence of the virus in wildlife and with widespread geographic presence...in my opinion this sentence dilutes rather than strengthens the impact of the study, which is clearly stated in the sentence before. Cite this review as
Pesavento P ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "High prevalence of Lynx rufus gammaherpesvirus 1 in wild Vermont bobcats (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4982v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
see below
Experimental design
label_ed_2
see below
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
see below
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
High prevalence of Lynx rufus gammaherpesvirus 1 in wild Vermont bobcats (#23555) The manuscript is very well written. The content is novel, clear and well executed. The manuscript will be of interest to virologists, particularly those interested in gammaherpesviruses, as well as wildlife ecologists. I have the following specific comments: Line 35-36: Ultimately, the frequency and physiological locations of reactivation determine the clinical manifestation of herpesvirus infection (Speck & Ganem 2010). Please reconsider the accuracy of this statement with regard to gammaherpesviruses. Upon infection of the host, GHVs usually enter latency immediately and most GHV disease is manifest during viral latency. Similarly lines 42-43, line 20: “Intensity…..of infection” is used to refer to virus load. This terminology may be confusing because it is not commonly used in this context, in my experience. Similarly line 51, 78 Line 89: Re bobcat carcasses, a note of explanation to the reader as to their provenance would assist the international audience. Did these animals die of natural causes? Were they hunted? trapped? This information is important to understand how representative the sampled population is of the general population. Line 97-98. Please comment and reference the accuracy of this method of aging. A caveat to the interpretation of results, as they relate to age might be considered. Line 156 and throughout manuscript qRT-PCR should be replaced with qPCR. The latter is accepted to refer to real-time quantitative PCR. (The addition or RT is unnecessary and can suggest a reverse transcription step, which is not the case) Lines 237-242. This information is interesting and informative. However, the limitations associated with analysis of such a short sequence should be acknowledged. Lines 249-252 Fascinating concept. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "High prevalence of Lynx rufus gammaherpesvirus 1 in wild Vermont bobcats (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4982v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 5, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
