Review History for Ecotoxicity of disinfectant benzalkonium chloride and its mixture with antineoplastic drug 5-fluorouracil towards alga Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Ecotoxicity of disinfectant benzalkonium chloride and its mixture with antineoplastic drug 5-fluorouracil towards alga Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 13th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 13th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 23rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 28th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Monika Mortimer
·
May 28, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for carefully revising your manuscript and addressing the reviewers' suggestions. It has been a pleasure working with you. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 23, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Monika Mortimer
·
Apr 13, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The Reviewers have made suggestions and comments which, I believe, will help to improve the manuscript. Please pay special attention to the comments on the statistical analysis, information about the number of replicates and variability of the data. Please make appropriate changes and submit your revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 4, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article text is supported by the appropriate literature, however some citations need to be corrected: (a)paper by Abel (1974) is not good citation for membrane-QAC interaction. I would recommend to change it. It may be e.g. Tischer, M., Pradel, G., Ohlsen, K., & Holzgrabe, U. (2012). Quaternary ammonium salts and their antimicrobial potential: targets or nonspecific interactions?. ChemMedChem, 7(1), 22-31 (or something similar); (b)Kosjek and Heath (2011) is incorrectly cited in the text as “Kosjek et al.”; (c)Kuemmerer and Ruck (2014) is incorrectly cited in the text as “Kuemmerer et al.”; (d)Altenburger and Greco (2009) is incorrectly cited in the text as “Altenburger et al.”; (e)Kreuzinger et al. (2007) is incorrectly cited in the text as “Kreuzineger et al.”. Figures (a)Figure 1 – right photo (electron microscope) was already published in Authors paper (2016) but it is not stated in the figure caption. In my opinion this figure is not essential for publication so it may be removed. Otherwise it should be described as reprinted from the other paper; (b)Figure 2 – please, give the information how many replicates did you use to calculate mean values. Tables. In Table 1 description it should be stated that 5-FU toxicity was investigated earlier and described in the previous Authors paper. There is a misspelling in the word “benzalconium”.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
It should be clearly stated in the “Toxicity studies – algal growth inhibition assay” section, that 5-FU toxicity was investigated earlier and described in the previous Authors paper (it is only mentioned in Discussion and in Fig. 3).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No negative comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The problem presented in the manuscript is very interesting and environmentally important. The results could be considered as a valuable broadening and supplementing of the previous Authors’ works. The manuscript is well prepared and needs only minor improvement. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Ecotoxicity of disinfectant benzalkonium chloride and its mixture with antineoplastic drug 5-fluorouracil towards alga Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4986v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 12, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Article could use minor revisions for wording for professional English throughout. Introduction (general): Introduction needs more citations for the points the authors make. QACs are common pollutants in wastewaters (Lines 53-54); pharmaceuticals are commonly found in municipal wastewaters (70-71); they enter the environment via effluents… (71-74).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Line 102: Did authors use a solvent control to control for possible effects of DMSO on algal growth? Line 116-119, and Table 1 and 2: The concentrations of BAC used in this study need clarification. Based on the text, authors chose their concentrations for the mixture toxicity based on previous work by other authors. However, the concentrations listed as used for BAC are exactly half the relevant ECX values shown in Table 2. So were the concentrations chosen based on previous studies, or this study, or did the previous studies result in exactly the same point estimates as the current one? Line 118: Why was 5-FU not retested on its own in the current study? Authors are relying on data from a 15 year old study (Cleuvers 2003) performed by a different laboratory? Line 135: How many replicates were used for each treatment?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Line 225: It is unclear what the authors mean by "we observed heterogeneity". Please reword. Lines 263-273: Too much info from the previous study. Not necessary.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Line 26: Calculated EC50 was 0.255, not 0.3. No reason to round up in the abstract. Lines 52-53: Units of t versus kt. Change one of these to be consistent. Line 81: Needs rewording, or another comma. "…even at low". Also, what is low here? Line 88: Is 5-FU an antincancer drug or an antineoplastic? Table 1: Typo in caption "benzalconium". Third column in the table is unnecessary Table 2: If BAC concentrations used in Table 1 are based on ECX values from Table 2, it stands that the results in Table 2 should be discussed first, and thus the two tables should switch spots. Table 3: Are there statistics associated with these CI values? Or confidence limits of any sort? Figure 1: Photos are too dark. Scale bar not visible on left photo. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Ecotoxicity of disinfectant benzalkonium chloride and its mixture with antineoplastic drug 5-fluorouracil towards alga Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4986v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 13, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
