Review History for Sorption to soil, biochar and compost: is prediction to multicomponent mixtures possible based on single sorbent measurements? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Sorption to soil, biochar and compost: is prediction to multicomponent mixtures possible based on single sorbent measurements? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 4th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 4th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 25th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 29th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Samuel Abiven
·
May 29, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you very much for taking into account the comments from the reviewers, and congratulations for this very nice piece of work.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 25, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Samuel Abiven
·
May 4, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The two reviewers are positively impressed with this piece of work. Still, they addressed a couple of details that would be worth taking into account, prior acceptance. Looking forward to read your revised version
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper „Sorption to soil, biochar and compost …“ by Kah et al. describes an important aspect of sorption studies that definitely should be considered in many investigations dealing with the immobilization of pollutants to a sorbent.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experiments described in this study have been well designed and have resulted in useful insights about sorption processes in a multicomponent system. This is a considerable progress compared to the all too common one-factor sorption studies.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Though I am generally quite happy with the paper, I suggest that the authors might consider a few minor issues: •The readers of the article might be interested to get a little more information about the rationale of the selected experimental design. What was the reason for selecting 5% biochar and 10% compost as additive to soil? A conclusive comparison of the sorbents is not made easier if varying amounts of the materials have been used. Another option would have been to add e.g. equivalent amount of organic carbon with the sorbent. •In the abstract it would be useful to indicate not only the changes in pyrene sorption by the added sorbents to soil as a multiple of the soil sorption but also to define which amount of added sorbent has caused these changes. •The authors rely heavily on the Freundlich model of sorption isotherms. Although it may well be that this is the most appropriate model for the specific experiments, it would be useful to mention why not alternative models like Langmuir or Dubinin-Raduskevic have also been tested for comparing the performance of different models. •Figures 2, 3, 4: it is not very fortunate to use only dark colors to show different treatments. Black can hardly be distinguished from dark-green and brown. More contrast is recommended. •Tables S4, S5: it is not very fortunate to use in both tables the abbreviation Std. as in one case standard deviation, in the other case standard error is meant. The usual abbreviations are s.d. and s.e.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No additional comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Sorption to soil, biochar and compost: is prediction to multicomponent mixtures possible based on single sorbent measurements? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4996v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
see below
Experimental design
label_ed_2
see below
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
see below
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a neat piece of work on the sorption of pyrene to biochar, soil and compost, and combinations thereof. The study's originality is in the combination of compost and biochar. The rest of the science presented, that binding at carbonaceous sorbents is less strong in the presence of soil or sediment (the "attenuation" effect), has been known for over 10 years. The work is technically sound, with both passive samplers and batch sorption experiments. Some issues I have with the study include; 1.My most important question is: where are the DOC concentrations? There is a lot of argumentation around them, and that they could possibly change apparent Kd-values, but pyrene is not so very hydrophobic, so one needs high DOC concentrations to increase aqueous concentrations of pyrene. How high were the concentrations (if they were not measured, prepare dummy samples and do measure them), and would any effect on overall sorption be expected, calculated based on assumed K_DOC values for pyrene? 2.Plot all sorption isotherms as log-log plots, now it is hard to see the low-concentration points 3.Do not apply a Langmuir-like dual-mode sorption model for the sorbents, the requirements for Langmuir sorption are not fulfilled (monolayer coverage, homogeneous sorption sites). Just use a dual mode Freundlich isotherm, CS= fsoilKDCW + fsorbKF,sorbCWn_sorbent And derive n_sorbent from the sorption isotherms for the pure sorbents. 4.Give the MS a grammar check, there were some faulty sentences, e.g. line 73-74, line 90, line 328 5.It would be nice to find out whether the observed attenuation is a "real" phenomenon or only a kinetic thing – cite Hale et al 2009 (Hale, S. E., Tomaszewski, J. E., Luthy, R. G., & Werner, D. (2009). Sorption of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) and its metabolites by activated carbon in clean water and sediment slurries. Water research, 43(17), 4336-4346) who observed that the fouling of AC by organic matter with regard to DDT adsorption was a kinetic phenomenon- after 2-3 years the sorption to AC in the presence of sediment was the same as sorption to clean AC. It is probably not possible to stretch the current measurements for such long times, but at least cite and discuss the possibility that this is a temporary phenomenon. 6.Line 60: of course strong sorption to a sorbent inhibits availability for degradation, but the fractions unavailable for degradation are also unavailable for uptake. More nuanced discussion needed. 7.Line 91: "contribution of DOC to sorption" – depends what you want to know. If you look at health effects, stick to the POM-based free concentrations. If you want to investigate transport, the total concentrations including DOC-bound ones are needed. 8.Line 307-308: apart from that this sentence is a bit meaningless, I also disagree: measuring freely dissolved concentrations with passive samplers is not SO difficult….. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Sorption to soil, biochar and compost: is prediction to multicomponent mixtures possible based on single sorbent measurements? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4996v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 4, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
