Review History for Reproductive ecology of the endangered Beal’s-eyed turtle, Sacalia bealei [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Reproductive ecology of the endangered Beal’s-eyed turtle, Sacalia bealei To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 24th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 13th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 23rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 29th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Valery Forbes
·
May 29, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your revised manuscript has successfully address the comments and suggestions of both reviewers. In particular, the addition of several pictures is very informative. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Jennifer Vonk, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 23, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Valery Forbes
·
Apr 13, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please consider carefully all of the comments of the reviewers and provide a point-by-point indication of how you have responded to each. Please pay particular attention to Reviewer 1's recommendation to take out any extraneous discussion that has nothing to do with turtle nesting, incubation or hatchlings as well as this reviewer's comment that you cannot conclude that the turtles only next once per year based on your observations. I would also encourage you to add an appropriate figure as suggested by Reviewer 2.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The English used is clear, I made many comments on ms for a better English style. There is no problem with the text, except they make several untrue statements, I have cut out much of the text whcih talks about conservation issues and poaching, this article is about reproduction, and does not need to have and discussion about humans trafficking this species. They do not describe the type of transmitters used. They should have a photo of their string trailing device. I do not know why they mentioned radio telemetry if they did not report the data. Also they did not report if they followed the female turtles after they returned to the river. These turtles could have had the opportunity to nest several more times during the season. No mention was made if they followed the turtles until hibernation or not or if they exrayed them again or not. If they had used infrasound they could have detected enlarged follicles as well as oviducal eggs, which would suggest future clutches of the same year. Many format errors in Lit Cit.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
There was no mention of turtle activity after they returned to the water, the turtles should have been followed with radio telemetry for at least 2 months and captured and palped, placing a finger into the inguinal cavity will allow one to detect the presence of shelled eggs in turtles, even species such as Kinosternon acutum, a much smaller species where nesting females have a mean crapace length of 97 mm and mass of 117 g, they can be palped, and they froduce 2-4 clutches of 1-3 eggs during a season.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The nest descriptions, number of eggs per clutch, incubation temperatures, haching and female sizes are all important findings. But, as i said above, since they did not follow the females after they nested they can not validate that they only nest once a year Also they do not know if the eggs that did not develop were fertile or not, they did not open the eggs and inspect the membranes for dead sperm. But fecundity does not seem to be a problem in this study
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I think you did a wonderful job writing this article in English. You should report the size of the females that nested in the results in the text, the measurements of the hatchlings should be in the text and the temperature data as well delete all of the tables, and it would be informative to have a photograph of a turtle with the trailing device attached. If you have data with radio telemetry after the turtles nested you should report on it. You should also mention when they entered hibernation. I think your data are worthy of publication, heed my remarks and rewrite it. The allusion to seaturtles and larger freshwater turtles making flask shaped nests is not relevant, very small freshwater turtles also make flask shaped nests, I do not think bringing a discussion of flask shaped nests has anything to do with your study. You do not talk about sex ratios in nature, so do not mention it. This article is about nesting and incubation in nature. Leave all of the material about the pet trade out of the article. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Reproductive ecology of the endangered Beal’s-eyed turtle, Sacalia bealei (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4997v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
James Parham ·
Apr 12, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The basic reporting of the paper is fine, except for the noticeable lack of figures. Since PeerJ publishes free color this is an easy way to greatly enhance the reporting of this paper. Line 47 (and elsewhere) the authors discuss spool and line tracking, they should show images of what this is. How it looks in the field. Lines 57 and 58 describe the vegetation, the authors should supplement the short written description with images. Show the stream and and nesting sites. Line 138 show camoflauged nest and fishing line Lines 160-164 they give description of hatchlings that is begging for photographs. Lines 175 and elsewhere they discuss the nest shape, they should show pictures. Optional images would be of the adult species.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I think the experimental design is fine. Maybe there are other approaches, I don't know, but they added many new data and inisghts about this poorly know species.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I think their conclusions are well stated and connect to the literature.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper definitely needs some photographs. Cite this review as
Parham J ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Reproductive ecology of the endangered Beal’s-eyed turtle, Sacalia bealei (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.4997v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 24, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
