Review History for Biodegradation of Crystal Violet dye by bacteria isolated from textile industry effluents [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Biodegradation of Crystal Violet dye by bacteria isolated from textile industry effluents To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 29th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 13th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 16th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 30th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Huan-Tsung Chang
·
May 30, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors responded the Reviewer's comments correctly and carefully. The results show potential of bacteria Enterobacter sp. CV–S1 for degradation of organic contaminants such as Crystal Violet. Nice work!
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 16, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Huan-Tsung Chang
·
Mar 13, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please carefully respond to the comments from the three reviewers. Note: Reviewer 3 has attached an annotated PDF
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 14, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In this manuscript, the authors proposed the concept of utilizing bacterial to degrade organic dyes/pollutants (crystal violet as a sample). They have optimized the conditions of pH, temperature, and reaction time. Overall, this is an interesting paper and could has impact in the near future. Some points need to be considered before the acceptance of this manuscript. 1.I strongly suggest the authors provide the absorption spectra of crystal violet at different degradation times. This will help the readers to understand more clearly about the degradation level at a specific reaction time. 2.Also, I suggest them to provide the photograph of bacteria at different degradation times. If the bacteria maintain their original color (for example, white), this means that the de-colorization of crystal violet solution is truly from the degradation by bacteria. Otherwise, the de-colorization of crystal violet solution could also happen when the crystal violet is adsorbed on bacterial. 3.Because the degradation time is 72 hours, the authors also need to prove that after such a reaction time with crystal violet, the bacteria are still alive. This will help the readers to fully believe that the degradation of crystal violet is from bacteria themselves.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Biodegradation of Crystal Violet dye by bacteria isolated from textile industry effluents (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5015v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Introduction part need complete some degradation data of references with this study.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
It is presents well and a smart design.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
A good ideal for degradation of dye with CV-S1.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
1. Why the degradation rate is highest at pH 6.5? 2. What is the lifetime of bateria CV-S1? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Biodegradation of Crystal Violet dye by bacteria isolated from textile industry effluents (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5015v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Ahmed Olowookere ·
Mar 13, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
1.The title should be reworded. The following two titles have been suggested: i.Biodegradation of crystal violet dyes by bacteria isolated from textile industry effluents. ii.Characterisation of crystal violet degrading bacteria from textile industry effluents. 2.Comprehension of the introduction section of this manuscript is difficult without thorough editing and recasting of several statements. Some areas have been highlighted in the manuscript and suggestions made. 3.Line 114-118: The objective should be recast ‘the present study aimed to isolate and characterise crystal violet degrading bacteria from textile industry effluents for potential use in industrial bioremediation process’. 4.The figures and tables are not properly referenced in the text. 5.The methods described under abstract does not adequately described the work done. The statements should be recast.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
1.References were not cited for some of the methods used in the experimentation. 2.There are several instances where assertions were not substantiated with references. This has been noted in the appropriate sections of the manuscript. 3.There are several sections that are unnecessarily included under methods (section 2.2,2.7, 2.6). 4.The results should be preferably separated from discussion.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
1.I’m concerned about the quality of the discussion. The work was poorly discussed. Also, comparison with results of others was poorly done. This is a major concern because as it is currently presented, the discussion is not interesting. 2. a suggestion has been made on how to improve the conclusion.
Comments for the author
The authors investigated the efficiency of a newly isolated and characterised bacteria in the bioremediation of industrial effluents containing crystal violet dyes. While the finding is exciting as the isolated bacteria may find useful role in bioremediation, the report was poorly written and sections of the same results repeatedly stated. Some other areas of concerns are highlighted below: Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Olowookere A ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Biodegradation of Crystal Violet dye by bacteria isolated from textile industry effluents (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5015v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 29, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
