Review History for Osteohistology of Late Triassic prozostrodontian cynodonts from Brazil [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Osteohistology of Late Triassic prozostrodontian cynodonts from Brazil To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 26th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 12th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 30th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 31st, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Erik Seiffert
·
May 31, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your close attention to the reviewers' comments and suggestions, and for the substantial revisions that you have made to the original text. Your paper has been significantly improved by these changes, and I now consider it to be suitable for publication in PeerJ without any additional revision. Thanks, again, for this very interesting submission, and I look forward to seeing it in print! # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Andy Farke, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 30, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Erik Seiffert
·
Apr 12, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Your manuscript “Osteohistology of Late Triassic prozostrodontian cynodonts from Brazil” has now been seen by three reviewers. All of the reviewers agree that the core osteohistological data that you present are unique and important, but a number of issues were raised that will need to be addressed before your study can be considered for publication. My impression is that the accessibility of the paper could be significantly improved by expanding the introduction to include more background information on the use of osteohistological data in cynodont paleobiology. What has been already been done in this area of study? How were the results interpreted? What are the different bone types that have been identified in various cynodont taxa and what do they tell us? As the manuscript stands, the introduction is very short and the naïve reader will find it difficult to follow the results. Reviewer 3 expressed similar concerns. The sentence starting on line 100, “Life history data…” could be a new paragraph that goes into much more depth on the background of the problem. Among other things, I noticed that “LAG” is never defined. Though certainly not essential, an image showing what these animals looked like (skulls, skeletons?) would be useful. Figure 5 also gives important information about the relationships and adaptations of the study taxa (6 out of 7 of which do not relate to osteohistology) that would be useful background information as part of the expanded introduction that I have recommended; you might consider making this the first figure of the paper rather than the last figure. Again, this would provide readers with more context before diving into the results, thereby making the paper more accessible to non-experts. I agree with Reviewer 2 that additional labels would improve Figures 1-4. I do not see the “PFB” label mentioned in the caption of Figure 3 on the figure itself. I also do not see the “C” label for that panel. Reviewer 3 had significant concerns about the “Implications for non-mammaliaform cynodont physiology” section, arguing that it is “a rather confusing account of the relationship of bone histology to endothermy”. I also found it difficult to connect the dots in some places. I would urge you to consider whether this section could be shortened, perhaps to focus primarily on the inferences that can be gleaned from the osteohistological data. Reviewers 1 and 2 both provide recommendations for stylistic changes, and I have provided other edits in the attached annotated pdf. I look forward to see the revised manuscript in due course.
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The fossils studied are really important to understand life history and physiology around mammal origins. It is original and important what the authors have done. This paper treats Brasilodon and Brasilotherium as separate taxa – the standard way – although it hints from unpublished data from some of the authors that they may represent different ontogenetic stages of the same species. The histological data presented supports the latter hypothesis. The discussion of several taxa in lines 375-382 is in part confusing. I think the ‘However’ in line 378 misleads, as the finding in Irajatherium does no contradict what is reported just before – it just leads to interpretations of some kind, etc. Please revise this section. In terms of bone compactness and small, burrowing mammals, the authors may wish to consult this work on bone compactness in talpids: Meier PS, et al (2013) Evolution of bone compactness in extant and extinct moles (Talpidae): exploring humeral microstructure in small fossorial mammals. BMC Evolutionary Biology 13:55 Figure 5 is very useful. It would be good to add in the caption the source of some of those events mapped other than those treated in the manuscript (for example, reference for point 5 on vibrissae). This reference attempted something similar but at a much more general and rigorous level – it may be outdated but the authors may wish to check if there is information there to be integrated or commented upon. Sánchez-Villagra MR (2010) Developmental palaeontology in synapsids: the rock record of ontogeny in mammals and their closest relatives. Proc Roy Soc London, B. 277: 1139-1147. The authors may consider adding a table summarizing the histological features described for the different taxa, also those cited from the literature. I do not see this as essential. In several places of the manuscript, the word ‘interestingly’ is used (e.g., lines 382, 397, 446) – this is a stylistic aspect criticized in many writing manuals with which I concur – I invite the authors to consider this. Here I quote from Letzman 1995: ‘Rather than telling a reader that a result is significant or interesting, show them how it is significant or interesting’. The authors do already the second, so they can just delete the ‘Interestingly’. (Check if you wish a dialogue in ‘Captain fantastic’ which refers to ‘interesting’, www.youtube.com/watch?v=YXimxT2iE8I)
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Line 53 – ‘in its definition’ – it is unclear what is meant here. This sentence presents terms most readers won’t be familiar with – I think you mean that crown mammalia is part of mammaliaformes – correct? Maybe the second sentence of the Introduction, to start, adding the stratigraphic occurrence, is more clear? Line 56: I would delete ‘unranked’ Line 70 – being this a new paragraph, I would not start with ‘However’. See also line 600. line 165: …were so small THAT only one or two… lines 294-295: something missing and comma misplaced. Line 324: I would rephrase to:..and provides an example of the predominant type of growth… - is this what you mean? Line 325: …well vascularized, COMMA Line 341: …all of which express… Line 347 …continued, COMMA Line 352 …growing, COMMA Line 703-794 – format italics journal. There is a paper by Felder et al. 2018 that just came out on animal’s size and secondary osteons which may be relevant to consider in the discussion in this work on scaling. Felder AA, Phillips C, Cornish H, Cooke M, Hutchinson JR, Doube M. 2017 Secondary osteons scale allometrically in mammalian humerus and femur. R. Soc. Open sci. 4: 170431. http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170431 Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Osteohistology of Late Triassic prozostrodontian cynodonts from Brazil (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5029v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Simone Hoffmann ·
Mar 20, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is overall well written; the language is clear and unambiguous. The authors take great care in explaining terms which is very helpful for following the results and discussion. I only noticed a few typos in line 165 “than” should be replaced with “that”; line 242 “there” should be replaced with “it”, line 607 “Morganucodon (Fig. 5(6)), that which is typical of extant placental” delete that or which. The figures are relevant and of high quality. The raw data in form of images is already included in the manuscript. However, I would suggest the following minor edits 1. Figures 1–4: to better relate the structures described in the text with the images it would be helpful to label examples of e.g., Fig. 1 large resorption cavities, vascular canals, primary osteons; Fig. 2 primary osteons, radiating canals osteocyte lacunae and so on. 2. Figure 5: Please explain the color pattern (change from yellow to red, why are some taxa white and others black) in the figure caption. I would further suggest replacing clade names with the names of the species mention in the discussion (for example Procynosuchus, Triarachodon, Massetognathus). Though the figure might take up a bit more space it would make it easier to relate the section on implications for cyndodont physiology to the figure 3. Figure 2: LZB is not listed in the abbreviations
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment. The manuscript meets the standards listed: the research question is well defined, the authors specifically point to the gap in knowledge that this research is filling, the bone histology is described in great detail, the methods are sufficiently detailed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment. The manuscript meets the standards
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
1. The authors are in few instances vague in their use of derived prozostrodontians and mammaliaform. For example: line 58 “the Tritylodontidae and Tritheledontidae, both closely related to the Mammalia” it would be more correct to use Mammaliaformes here as the sister clade. line 427 “because the only mammaliaform that has been sectioned is the...” as all extant mammals are mammaliaforms this statement is not correct. I do see what the authors mean; but it would be more appropriate to use non-mammalian mammaliaform or basal mammaliaform line 48, 630 “small derived prozostrodontians” I suggest changing this to non-mammaliaform prozostrodontians. As derived prozostrodontians could refer to any derived mammal today as well. There might be other instances and I believe it would be good to check the manuscript carefully. It is all too easy to slip into using mammaliaforms or prozostrodontians as if it would only refer to the basal forms within this group. 2. Growths and life span of Morganucodon. New, but unpublished data (presented for example at the International Symposium on Paleohistology 2015 by Newham et al.) on cementum suggest that Morganucodon might have grown for much longer time periods. Even Chinsamy and Hurum (2006) indicated that several LAG’s were visible in the ulna of Morganucodon though they do not mention or indicate how many. I see that this will be fairly difficult to address as the cementum data is not published yet, but it might be possible to include Chinsamy and Hurum’s (2006:p.328) statement on Morganucodon: “This area includes several rest lines, which indicate pauses in the rate of bone formation, and hence, pauses in growth.” Though the authors note that brasilodontids had a relatively more protracted growth period, it seems possible that it might have been even longer for Morganucodon. 3. line 43 Late Triassic/Early Jurassic mammaliaform Morganucodon and Late Cretaceous multituberculate mammals. I would suggest to change “and Late Cretaceous multituberculate mammals” to “and the Late Cretaceous multituberculates Nemegtbaatar and Kryptobaatar” to be more specific and consistent with the reference to Morganucodon Cite this review as
Hoffmann S ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Osteohistology of Late Triassic prozostrodontian cynodonts from Brazil (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5029v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Apr 2, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
See below
Experimental design
label_ed_3
See below
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
See below
Comments for the author
Botha Brink and her co-workers are the leaders when it comes to bone histology of therapsids. This paper gives a detailed account of the histology of Late Triassic forms that are mammals closest relatives. The account given of the histology is a valuable contribution and I recommend publication of this portion of the paper. However the authors expand far beyond the important descriptive part and provide a rather confusing account of the relationship of bone histology to endothermy. I think it would be improved if they clarify the ontogeny of different bone types in these advanced brazilosdontids and compare this to mammals of the same size. As understand their conclusion the first type of bone formed is FLB indicating rapid growth this is followed by PFB that includes a lag line and this in turn by FLB and always lack a EFS and lack definitive growth? They interpret the single lag to mean that after one year only a slight amount growth occurs. It would be helpful if more attention was paid to the meaning of these layers. The authors suggest that FLB = rapid growth, PFB = slow growth. Is the latter due to seasonal changes? And if so, does the lag line occur sometime during this season when adverse environmental conditions prevent growth completely and there may be some bone resorption? Following this does some slow growth occur as conditions improve? It would be helpful if this could be compared with the same detail in a small mammal. Lag lines are common in marsupials, but do the small mammals they are comparing their specimens with show a single lag line followed by FLB and EFS. They conclude that many of the attributes of homoeothermic endothermic was present in the forms the authors studied and claim they possibly possesed elevated maximum and basal metabolic rates. I suggest a few of these should be included . Definitive growth occurs in small mammals; this is associated with endothermy but I appreciate the authors caution in not claiming this for prozostrodonts. The value of this paper is the detailed description of the bone histology of prozostrodontis and the conclusion on their growth patterns. I think the long sections on the origin of endothermy detract rather than add to the papers importance. For example the relative size of the olfactory chamber in Thrinaxodon is similar to all the non-mamalian cynodonts, I agree that some reptiles use limited endogenous heat production during parental, but there is no credible basis for the claim that Lumkuia or other advanced forms, before mammals had extended parental care. Also there is no evidence that Morganucodon possessed ossified turnbinals. Some of these may be true but without some justification they add little to what I consider to be an excellent paper. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Osteohistology of Late Triassic prozostrodontian cynodonts from Brazil (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5029v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 26, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
