Review History for Comprehensive analysis of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades in chrysanthemum [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Comprehensive analysis of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades in chrysanthemum To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 24th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 16th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 30th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 1st, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Jun 1, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Since all critical points of both reviewers were adequately addressed and the manuscript was revised accordingly, I am pleased to accept it for publication in PeerJ. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Jeffrey Ross-Ibarra, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 30, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
May 16, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As you can see, both reviewers provide very favorable comments and think that your manuscript is potentially publishable. However, they also indicated that there are some minor issues that need to be addressed. Therefore, please carefully consider all critiques raised by both reviewers and revise your manuscript accordingly.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 6, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In this manuscript, the authors conduct a good study on MAPK cascades of chrysanthemum. With gene sequencing and PCR, a couple of CmMPK and CmMKK genes are characterized and expression pattern of these genes are quantified. In addition, the interaction between CmMMK and CmMPK are unveiled with yeast two-hybrid assay and their contribution to stress resistance of chrysanthemum are evaluated in various stressed growth conditions. The author gains a huge amount of experiment data with solid work as well as a comprehensive genetic analysis. The conclusions are clearly stated in the manuscript and reasonably made according to the experiment data. Yet, there are several issues in this manuscript such as loss of statistic test and incomplete figure legend, which can cause the confusion and misinterpretation. Overall, the manuscript is publishable after all the issues are fixed properly. Therefore, I suggest minor revision on this manuscript. Major Issues 1.In figure 3&4, the author does NOT provide any statistic tests to show the significance of difference. To confirm this, statistical analysis needs to be added in the method part to explain like what statistical test is used, what p value is, etc. 2.For line 323, the CmMPK13 and CmMKK4 have opposite expression level in root according to figure 3a and 3b, (MPK 13 is low but MKK4 is high). Given root is the main organ responsive for osmotic stress, should this need to be involved in the discussion here? Also, it seems that the expression level data in figure 5 showing the similarity comes from the whole plant but not the root, so it is questionable that how relevant this data is to plant salt resistance. As shown in figure 3a and 3b, the expression of MPK13 and MKK4 in other part of plant (i.e. stem) may offset their difference in root, which leads to the overall similar expression. Minor Issues 1.Reorganize the abstract part following the instruction of Peer J. No need to highlight the background, method etc.. 2.In the abstract and line 20, the sentence that “qRT-PCR and yeast two-hybrid assay were used for the further analysis” is ambiguous, the author should clearly state what analysis is done by qPCR and yeast assay. 3.Beside the figure, author should also state what type of plant each sign (blue circle, green square and yellow triangle) represent in the figure legend. 4.In result 3.1, the author should be clear on what criteria or standards to divide all the motifs into four groups for the comparison. If they are grouped by software, then what logarithm does the software use should be mentioned. 5.In figure 4, what is CK, C4, and H40 stands for? Clarify them in the figure legend. 6.In line 224, what is the resistance that MPK3 plays role in? 7.In line 249, should be among not between the MKKs. 8.In line 317-319, figure 5 should be referred after “its expression was significantly increased after PEG and salt treatments” since the figure3 doesn’t have data to support that.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
no comment Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Comprehensive analysis of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades in chrysanthemum (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5037v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In their manuscript submitted to PeerJ, Aiping Song et al. present an interesting finding about the MKK and MPK genes from Chrysanthemum sp.. From phylogenetic and conserved motif analysis from different plant species, authors have characterized 6 MKK genes and 11 MPK genes from Chrysanthemum sp. and their response to phytohormones and stresses. Introduction has been well-written with adequate references emphasizing on the important role of Mitogen Activated Protein kinases (MAPK) in plants and their crucial role in various signal cascade in response to stress or other physical requirements like growth, differentiation. The authors thus, successfully highlight the importance of 11 MPK and 6 MKK from Chrysanthemum sp and their interaction with each other in response to various signals forming different signal cascade finally emphasizing the novelty of this study. The manuscript has been drafted in accordance with PeerJ standards and all the figures are of high quality. However, for figure 4 author didn’t mention the meaning of the abbreviations CK, C4 & H40 in the figure legends which raises ambiguity in data interpretation. For each dot blot strip in figure 6, labeling of protein corresponding its dot is slightly misleading.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors through phylogenetic sequence analysis has identified 6 MKK genes and 11 MPK genes from Chrysanthemum sp.. Later, authors have functionally characterized these MKK and MPK genes using various experimental techniques. Experiments designed to address the unknown, are well defined and technically sounds good.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Authors reveal the important role 6 MKK genes and 11 MPK genes from Chrysanthemum sp. in response to plant growth, abiotic stress and phytohormones. The results/discussion as reported by authors need some edits as suggested below: Authors for figure 4 didn’t mention the meaning of the abbreviations CK, C4 & H40 in the figure legends so it was difficult to interpret the results for section 3.3 The discussion is lengthy. I would appreciate if the authors make it more concise and interesting by including figure and less text.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Comprehensive analysis of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades in chrysanthemum (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5037v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 24, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
