Review History for aaquetzalli is required for epithelial cell polarity and neural tissue formation in Drosophila [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History aaquetzalli is required for epithelial cell polarity and neural tissue formation in Drosophila To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 13th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 5th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 30th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 1st, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Shree Ram Singh
·
Jun 1, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Authors have address all comments raised by both reviewers. Revised manuscript is ready for publication. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Rob Toonen, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 30, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Shree Ram Singh
·
Apr 5, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address the issues raised by both reviewers on figure labeling, typos and sentences and if possible to use staining with antibodies for clarity.
label_author_1
Laurent Seroude ·
Mar 27, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is well written and only contains few typos and sentences that should be corrected/improved. line 31-32: “aqz encodes pioneer proteins with a conserved domain.” is vague and it would be better that the abstract clearly states the findings of the article: “aqz encodes proteins that harbor a domain with significant homology to a proline-rich conserved domain of nuclear receptor co-activators.” line 91: “RNAi injected in developing embryos sport defects…” should be replaced by “RNAi injected in developing embryos show defects…” line 146: “deoxycytidine 5’-trisphoshpate” should be corrected to “deoxycytidine 5’-triphosphate” Line 466:”…differentiate to ganglion mother cells, r differentiate later, a rationale…” should be corrected to ”…differentiate to ganglion mother cells, or differentiate later, a rationale…” Figure 1 legend states that the LD47990 was used as a probe for aqz-RA while LD02060 is used for RB, RC and RD. The location of LD02060 is indicated on the figure (showing it cannot detect RA transcripts) but the location LD47990 is missing to confirm that the probe only detects the RA transcript. The material and method section for Northern-blot is in disagreement with figure 1 by stating that probes were from LD47990 and the aqz 5’ region instead of LD02060 (line 145). The description of the aqzRescue construct is not provided in the material and method (cloning procedure, injection, transgenic strains) or indicated on Figure 1. Figure indicates rescue on the map that corresponds to a BAC construct that contains many transcription units that would not allow the authors to conclude that the lethality and neurogenic phenotypes are caused by the CG9821 transcription unit. Figure 3G and 3H genotypes are incorrectly reported: the GFP allele is not homozygous in the rescue genotypes and appears located on 2 different chromosomes (using ; instead of ,). The rescue construct is on the 2nd (53B2) and the aqz allele on the third (85B2). The genotypes should be aqzRescue/+; aqzGFP (1 copy rescue) or aqzRescue;aqzGFP(2 copies rescue). Homozygous genotypes should also be written aqzGFP and aqzRescue (no need for /). Figure 3H (and supplemental Figure 3H) is very confusing and hard to understand. It appears as almost 100% of the wild-type control die as adult. Bar graphs showing the lethality at each stage (3 bars) as % of previous stage would greatly help.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors needs to provide more details on how the Northern-blot and in situ probes were made (clone used and fragment used for multi prime labelling). The amount of RNA used for the Northern-blots is also missing.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
It is pretty rare that a gene is poorly documented on FlyBase and that the nature and number or transcripts/proteins solely result from computer predictions. The authors finally provide experimental data that clearly show the inaccuracy of the computer predictions regarding the size and number of transcripts. The use of the Northern-blot technique provides a much more accurate examination of the locus that does not involve any PCR or reverse transcription steps that can easily distort the results. The authors should however indicates (and ideally provides in supplementary data) that the probe has been confirmed to only detect transcripts from the aqz locus (the probe used is not strand-specific) by using single-stranded probes or showing absent/reduced northern signal on RNA isolated from mutant alleles. The rescue experiments with the aqzRESCUE construct are the most conclusive data that the neurogenic phenotype of the aqz1 and aqzGFP alleles are caused by an alteration of the CG9821 transcription unit. The complementation data (Table 1) show that the lethality phenotype is complemented between aqz1 and aqzGFP (confirmed by fig 3H and sup Fig 3H: most lethality occurs in larvae with aqzGFP while most lethality occurs in pupae with aqz1). This observation implies that aqz1 and aqzGFP cause lethality by altering different genes. It is confirmed by deficiency complementation: aqzGFP lethality is not complemented by the deficiencies (therefore the alteration is located between 85B1 and B6 as stated in Table 1 legend) while aqz1 lethality is complemented therefore indicating that the defect causing the lethality is not located between 85A5 and 85C2. The authors did not test the rescue of the legality of the 2 alleles similarly (no wild-type control and no rescue with only one copy of aqzRescue) but it seems that the pupal lethality is comparable between homozygous aqz1 and the rescue genotype (~50% larvae die and 100% of the 50% larvae that pupated die, comparable to ~90% pupal lethality in homozygous, larval lethality is likely due to the use of 2 copies of aqzRescue as observed in Figure 3). It is therefore most likely that the aqz1 strain has 2 different alterations: one outside of the aqz region that cause pupal lethality and one within the region that is not strong enough to cause larval lethality (or very weak considering that the larval lethality appears a bit higher than the wild-type control used in aqzGFP rescue in Figure 3) but do cause neurogenic phenotypes. It is critical for the validity of the findings that the authors describe the aqzRESCUE construct used to show that it only contains the aqz transcription unit. The rescue construct shown in Figure 1 (BAC) contains many transcription units and would not allow concluding that the neurogenic phenotypes are caused by the CG9821 transcription unit. It is unfortunate that the authors were unable to obtain antibodies. The authors do not have any experimental data to demonstrate that CG9821 transcription unit encodes more than one kind of protein. The abstract (line 31-32) should say that the locus encodes a putative protein (no plural).
Cite this review as
Seroude L ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "aaquetzalli is required for epithelial cell polarity and neural tissue formation in Drosophila (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5042v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 5, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Results are clearly presented and well explained except at some places like 1. Fig.5, it would be more clear if you also provide the separate channel images along with the merged one. 2.There are some typo and spacing errors, one again a thorough reading will solve that. 3. Fig.8 has lots of discrepancy in labeling.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1.Expression pattern of Aqz would be more clear with co-immunostaining for specific neuroectodermal, peripheral nervous system or mesoderm in Figure 4. Can show with any one of them which shows the best expression. 2. What about the Aqz expression in Aqz mutant, can show with alpha- Aqz antibody staining. 3. Fig.8, Mutant embryos are showing more intense expression of GFP-Aqz as compared to control embryos, is it really the case or just because of merging of multiple stacks during processing in case of mutant or if there is more intense expression then why it is so. Or It would be more better to use Aqz antibody instead of GFP.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This article further enhances our understanding about the role of Aqz during the development specially in the embryonic ectoderm, and ectodermally derived tissues. Moreover, this study indicates toward its even more major involvement in various important developmental processes by altering the expression of polarity proteins and that would be even more interesting to study. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "aaquetzalli is required for epithelial cell polarity and neural tissue formation in Drosophila (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5042v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 13, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
