Review History for Responses of an oyster host (Crassostrea virginica) and its protozoan parasite (Perkinsus marinus) to increasing air temperature [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Responses of an oyster host ( Crassostrea virginica ) and its protozoan parasite ( Perkinsus marinus ) to increasing air temperature To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 8th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 28th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 22nd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 1st, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Martina Doblin
·
Jun 1, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your revised manuscript. I noticed the legend for Table 1 and 2 was switched - this will require checking. Also, your schematic for the experimental setup would best identify the components with some text labels rather than explaining them in the legend. These things can be resolved while in production # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Rob Toonen, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 22, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Martina Doblin
·
Apr 28, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Overall the manuscript is well written, with solid experimental design and appropriate inference drawn from the data. The reviewers point out a few areas of improvement that should be addressed in the revised manuscript. In addition, it would be helpful if hemocytes and granulocytes were defined (are they the same cells?). Some discussion about the likely co-variance of food availability/quality with temperature is also warranted, given warming is occurring alongside other environmental changes (Dore, Lukas, Sadler, Church, & Karl, 2009; IPCC Summary for Policymakers, 2014), and the strong likelihood of interactive effects. [# PeerJ staff note - our apologies for a delayed decision. Unfortunately a reviewer who had promised their input never provided it, and so we had to find a replacement #]
label_author_1
Diane McDougald ·
Apr 4, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript explores the effect of increasing air temperatures on the interaction of the eastern oyster (Crassostrea virginica) with the protistan parasite Perkinsus marinus. The number of infected oysters, the parasite load and oyster immune responses were determined. In addition, oyster mortality was monitored. Results show that at temperatures above 35°C, host survival decreases and oyster hemocytes are not affected until lethal temperatures are reached. In addition, P. marinus infection intensity increased at 35°C compared to the other temperatures. The language is clear and unambiguous, the introduction and background are appropriate and the literature is cited appropriately. All figures and tables are relevant and well labelled. Raw data is supplied with the exception of temperature variation in the exposure chambers.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The research question is well defined and relevant. Methods are described in sufficient detail but see following comments. The experimental chamber description is hard to follow. Is it possible to provide a photo or diagram of the setup? Did the temperature vary more than 0.5°C? The use of a temperature data logger is indicated but there is no mention of the temperature variation in actual experiments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusions are valid, and data is robust. Conclusions are well stated and support the results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors state that the average surface air temperature will increase from 0.3 to 4.5°C by 2090 and that the average in the area under study is 33°C. Why then were temperatures up to 53°C used for the experiments as this is well above the 37.5 projected temperature. The reasons for the specific temperatures chosen should be discussed. The authors speculate that increased temperatures may in fact cause an increase in immune responses of the host. Isn’t it also the case that this increase in immune response is harmful in and of itself? Isn’t it possible that an increase in immune response damages the host more than it protects the host? Line 321 – remove are considered Cite this review as
McDougald D ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Responses of an oyster host (Crassostrea virginica) and its protozoan parasite (Perkinsus marinus) to increasing air temperature (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5046v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Denise Breitburg ·
Apr 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript by Malek and Byers describes interesting results on the potential effects of rising atmospheric temperatures on host/parasite interactions and survival. The study will be of broad interest because of the not only because of the topic, but also because of the host is an economically and ecologically important species and the pathogen is a member of a genus that infects bivalves worldwide. The design and range of experiments, and the variety of methods including pcr, rftm and tests of phagocyte activity, is a strong point of the study. The ms is clear and well written. Figures and tables are appropriate. I recommend acceptance after very minor revision to address the issues raised below.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The design and analysis of experiments is very good. The variety of approaches to the problem is a strong point of the study. I have only 2 minor comments that should be addressed: line 192. Add the explanation that using gill and mantel tissue in addition to rectal tissue increases the probability of detecting low-intensity infections. line 199. Could Perkinsus be dormant – not dead? Omitting the highest temperature treatments would still be the appropriate step, but the implication could be different if infections could become active again as temperatures cooled in autumn.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data are robust and the interpretation of the findings is sound. The conclusions are logical extensions of the results and are not overly speculative. Some minor suggestions for the authors to consider: For Perkinsus infections, increased phagocyte activity does not always correlate with decreasef infection prevalence (Keppel et al., 2015). Please include a comment on this. Volety has worked on temperature effects on this host/parasite system. This is relevant even though it focused on subtidal oysters. line 314. For the sentence: ‘As temperatures rise in the intertidal, oysters may suffer not only from temperature-related mortality in the short- term, but also from higher intensity P. marinus infections over the long-term.’ – please explain what is meant by short- and long-term a bit more clearly. Do you mean days (survival) to months (disease) or over decades as temperatures rise.
Cite this review as
Breitburg D ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Responses of an oyster host (Crassostrea virginica) and its protozoan parasite (Perkinsus marinus) to increasing air temperature (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5046v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 8, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
