Review History for Human hair shaft proteomic profiling: individual differences, site specificity and cuticle analysis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Human hair shaft proteomic profiling: individual differences, site specificity and cuticle analysis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 13th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 11th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on July 18th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 18th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Jul 18, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I appreciate your careful consideration of the reviewers' comments and comment on the great job you did revising your manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 18, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Jul 11, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address all the points raised by both reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 7, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1) The age of volunteers is not specified in materials and methods (hair samples), it is unclear whether there were there individuals with stained hair or any disturbances in hair shaft structure among them 2) In «cuticle isolation» section, these is a mistake: authors possibly meant «air drying» instead of «air dying» 3) In my opinion, the work is not enough discussion of the differences in the structure of the hair shaft. For example the intact hair pictures, made with in particular an scanning electron microscope (authors own samples and method), would attract a wider range of researchers. I wonder whether there are differences in the pattern of the cuticle (or other characteristics of the hair shaft, at the discretion of the authors) in hair from different body sites and scalp hair of different ethnic groups (Caucasian, African-American, Kenyan and Korean subjects). If there are clear differences persist in samples from each individual of the ethnic group, it complements and enhances the definition of hairs of different ethnic groups. Especially, the authors showed that «differences between ethnic groups less marked». Description of the differences in the structure of the hair shaft (physical properties, morphology, cuticle pattern) between the hair from different body sites (axillary, facial pubic) could serve as an additional rapid method for forensic evidence.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Overall, the present study can be interesting and demanded both in proteomics, and for studies of skin diseases.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Human hair shaft proteomic profiling: individual differences, site specificity and cuticle analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.506v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 10, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The English is ok, but in some places is a little ornate, rather than straightforward. The authors should review this before publication. For example in the abstract- levels of a score of proteins- do they mean 20! Line 247 frequent length polymorphism could be explained a bit better.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Looks good
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
A reasonable number of samples have been examined. In may have been that if a larger number of samples had been examined more differences would be seen between ethic groups for example. I did not think Figure 3 was all that novel. The clustering is as one might expect.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
None Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Human hair shaft proteomic profiling: individual differences, site specificity and cuticle analysis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.506v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 13, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
