Review History for One-pot multicomponent nitro-Mannich reaction using a heterogeneous catalyst under solvent-free conditions [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History One-pot multicomponent nitro-Mannich reaction using a heterogeneous catalyst under solvent-free conditions To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 2nd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 24th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 24th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 4th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Scott Wallen
·
Jun 4, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the comments and taking the suggestions and concerns of the reviewers in your revised manuscript. The work is an important contribution to the green catalysis literature. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 24, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Scott Wallen
·
Apr 24, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript is acceptable for publication with minor revisions as suggested clearly by the reviewers' comments. The experiments were well planned, the results and analysis sound. The work presents an exciting and new, green, solvent-free method to prepare ß-nitroamines and has potential to impact preparation of even more complex systems in this important class of molecules. It would be instructive for the authors to include a scheme describing a generic Mannich reaction in the introduction. Particular attention to providing data assuring the reaction is completely heterogeneous through a method mentioned by the reviewer (hot filtration test) or one in the reference cited below. [1] The cited review focuses on homogeneous reactions but the tests for heterogeneous reactions are similar. In Equation 2 the abbreviation RMM has not been defined and this change would improve understanding for readers not familiar with the calculation. Also, are the solvents used in preparation of the catalyst loaded resin included in the calculations of E factor or atom economy? If not, this should be addressed and made clear in the text. Some of the substrates notations are incorrect, e.g. 2b-o (Table 5) resulted overall in short reaction times, …” However, Table 5 clearly shows that there are no products formed in the 2n and 2o reactions. In addition, please consider the reviewers’ comments with respect to specific changes that should be made to the manuscript. We look forward to receiving your revised manuscript. 1.Crabtree, R. H., “Resolving heterogeneity problems and impurity artifacts in operationally homogeneous transition metal catalysts.” Chemical reviews, 2011, 112(3), 1536-1554. DOI: 10.1021/cr2002905
label_author_1
Mannepalli Lakshmi Kantam ·
Mar 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Manuscript id: Peer J -23415 Title: One-pot multicomponent nitro-Mannich reaction using a heterogeneous catalyst under solvent-free conditions Authors: Giovanna Bosica and Ramon Zammit An environmentally-friendly, one-pot multicomponent reaction of various aldehydes, amines and nitroalkanes for the synthesis of ß-nitroamines is described using Amberlyst A-21 supported CuI catalyst. The Ms can be accepted for publication after minor revision. 1.One of the minor problems of this manuscript is English, which needs through editing. 2. Delete Fig 2. as advantages are summarized in conclusion. Cite this review as
Lakshmi Kantam M ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "One-pot multicomponent nitro-Mannich reaction using a heterogeneous catalyst under solvent-free conditions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5065v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Damien Debecker ·
Apr 9, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article meets the standards for being published in PeerJ.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The article meets the standards for being published in PeerJ.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The article generally meets the standards for being published in PeerJ. However, there is one experiment that should be carried out and reported to fully support the statement that the catalyst is truly heterogeneous. Indeed, the only way to acertain that the catalytic activity is strictly and solely the effect of the solid (and not for example from the 1% Cu that is leaching) is to perform a "hot filtration test". The reaction should be stopped at an early stage, when conversion has started but did not reach high values. Then the catalyst is removed (e.g. by filtration) and the filtrate is further allowed to react in the exact same conditions. If conversion value do not evolve at all, then the heterogeneous nature of the catalysis is confirmed. When mechanistic insights are provided, it is not always clear what is speculation and what is known from the litterature (e.g. 153-155). In the latter case, a reference would be needed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Though the paper is clearly of high quality (and interestingly includes valuable insights on the "greenness" of the process), I would like to make some suggestions. 1. abstract "catalysts can be reused up to 8 times". This statement is misleading. Authors have tested 8 recycling and found only minor deactivation (10%). But it is for the next user to decide if they want to recycle the cat further. Statement should be something linke "The catalyst has been tested up to 8 times with only a minor activity loss". 2. a genera Scheme of the Mannich reaction would nicely complement the first paragraph of the intro 3. Line 45-46. It is not correct to state that stoechimetric amount of catalyst is used. A catalyst is by definition not stoechiometric. 4. Line 54 "have substituted". What do authors mean? Industrially, everywhere, heterogeneous catalysts are used and not homogeneous cats? Only 1 specific paper is cited to support the sentence... Or maybe authors meant "have been shown to also catalyse"... 5. 68. Please clarify the sentence "which could be immobilized on a solid". Indeed, i the table, I see highly soluble species like KOH, Na2CO3, etc. 6. line 241. What does "nano-sized copper salt" means? Cite this review as
Debecker DP ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "One-pot multicomponent nitro-Mannich reaction using a heterogeneous catalyst under solvent-free conditions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5065v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Apr 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Comments for the authors The authors describe an environmentally-friendly one pot multicomponent reaction of aldehydes, amines and nitroalkanes using the Amberlyst A-21 supported copper (I) iodide. The present nitro-Mannich type reaction tolerated versatile aldehydes and amines and regioselectively afforded the beta-nitroaminoalkanes in high yields. Furthermore, the reaction was achieved in a solvent-free condition. The authors also show the environmental acceptability of the nitro-Mannich reaction by calculating both the atom economy and the E-factor (as shown in eq 1 and 2). The catalyst seems to be practical and useful according to the investigation of Table 8 (Comparison of E-factore of the catalytic systems) and Table 9 (which shows the percentage of copper ions that leached into the solution from the heterogeneous catalyst). The manuscript seems to be suitable for the article of the PeerJ after minor revisions. 1)Text: line 33: synthesis via umpolung chemistry ----- synthesis of umpolung chemistry 2)Experimental Section: please check the 1H NMR. 4e: 1H NMR: 2H is missing. 4g: 1H NMR: 1H is too much. 4j: 1H NMR: 1H is too much. 4k: 1H NMR: 2H is missing. 3)The authors should cite the reference on the Aza-Henry reaction of nitriles with copper iodide/cesium carbonate/DBU in nitromethane (Org. Lett. 2018, 20, 1130).
Experimental design
label_ed_3
good
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
good
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "One-pot multicomponent nitro-Mannich reaction using a heterogeneous catalyst under solvent-free conditions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5065v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 2, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
