Review History for The impact of the Wenchuan earthquake on early puberty: a natural experiment [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The impact of the Wenchuan earthquake on early puberty: a natural experiment To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 28th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 2nd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 23rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 5th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Charlie Zhang
·
Jun 5, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I can confirm that your manuscript is in good shape, and addressed the reviewer comments. We are grateful for your contribution to our journal and hope you consider PeerJ again for your future scholarly work.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 23, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Charlie Zhang
·
May 2, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The editor recommends that the authors thoroughly proofread the manuscript. For example, contractions (e.g., the use of "wasn't" in line 240 and ""didn't" in line 246) should be avoided in academic writing. Please address Reviewer 2's comments about the lack of detail on data collection - this is a valid and important concern.Also their comments about confounders should be taken into account. [# PeerJ Staff note: A staff check also revealed several issues in the language used in this submission. As noted by the Editor, the language must be improved, and we suggest you use a fluent English speaking colleague, or possibly an editing service #]
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 15, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The Introduction to this paper is succinct and nicely sets the stage for the work presented. But it is surprising that in lines 61 and elsewhere, psychosocial acceleration theory is referred to, but there is no direct reference to it, so the following MUST be cited in several places: Belsky, J., Steinberg, L., & Draper, P. (1991). Childhood Experience, Interpersonal Development and Reproductive Strategy: An Evolutionary Theory of Socialization. Child Development, 62, 647-670. When reference is made to the possibility that war is another harsh environment that might affect pubertal timing on line 70, the following reference should also be cited, as this is where that hypothesis is first advanced, building on the preceding citation: Belsky, J. (2008). War, Trauma and Children’s Development: Observations from a Modern Evolutionary Perspective. International Journal of Behavioral Development, 32, 260-271. One final comment, especially given the results: It is never made clear that Belsky et al. (1991) hypothesized that it was the first 5-7 years of life that would prove especially influential in shaping reproductive strategy and thus timing of puberty. That developmental viewpoint should be highlighted in the Introduction and discussed in the discussion. I also think that in the Introduction and/or discussion, it should be made clear what the evolutionary foundations of the adversity-puberty hypothesis was: That in the face of risk of early death or compromised development, accelerated somatic development was adaptive because it increased the chances of reproducing before dying.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The design of this epidemiological work is sound, but I was surprised to see the effort to measure first ejaculation in boys, as I have never seen this measured before. THe authors appropriately note that such self-reported data have been criticized, but if they are also referring when they say this to timing of first period/menarche, I would encourage revision of the wording, as there is plenty of good evidence that age of menarche is quite accurately recalled--even decades later. The same is by no means true of first ejaculation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Findings prove both original and interesting.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This paper indisputably extends the literature and makes, with noted revisions, a solid contribution to the literature. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "The impact of the Wenchuan earthquake on early puberty: a natural experiment (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5085v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Carlos Escudero ·
Apr 29, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Clear and unambiguous. Only couple of observations regarding comprehension of what the authors try to say. 1. Line 106-107 and Line 163-165 (last one regarding analysis in boys).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Hypothesis is ambiguos. It is talking about prediction of early puberty, but in fact is giving information about RR. Then, should be stated in terms of "increased RR". Methodology is limited. No information about how the data was collected. It indicated that was a survey. But, no information about the contend of that survey; or about when, how, who took the survey. Was only regarding age of puberty?. Seems to be very unlikely. Also, there is not analysis of confounder factors. What about information of early puberty in their parents?. What about BMI?. Despite authors said that socioeconomical status would be not a big confounder, I would like to insist about this possibility. Many other confounders can be listed. Then, article will improve including multivariable analysis.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Results are novel. Accordingly, information is valuable. But it needs more analysis. Statistics are fine. Please check again Table 4. Statistics in children < 7 years seems to be wrong. It is required to include sample size for Table 4. Discussion is fine. It may be improved including analysis of potential confounders.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
It is a nice work. But, seems to be preliminary analysis. Since, crude RR is given, but it should be analysis in terms also of confounder factors; therefore adjusted RR is more precise. As written, It should be OK if authors decide to published as short communication. Cite this review as
Escudero C ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "The impact of the Wenchuan earthquake on early puberty: a natural experiment (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5085v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 28, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
