Review History for Spatial changes in zooplankton communities in a strong human-mediated river ecosystem [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Spatial changes in zooplankton communities in a strong human-mediated river ecosystem To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 24th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 24th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 31st, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 5th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jörg Oehlmann
·
Jun 5, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you very much for the thorough revision of the manuscript and the consideration of the reviewers' comments. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Patricia Gandini, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 31, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jörg Oehlmann
·
Apr 24, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers have highlighted the strengths of you submitted manuscript and have proposed a number of changes to improve the quality. Please consider the proposed changes as mandatory for a final acceptance of your manuscript. In addition to the reviewer's comments I would like to draw your attention also to the following aspects: Keywords comprise "zooplankton" which is already part of the title and therefore should by replaced by another keyword. You have expressed your expectations in line 109ff. The introduction would benefit from a sharpened statement in the sense of a testable hypothesis which you could also incorporate into the abstract, together with a more detailed summary of results. I have checked your statistical analyses section and can confirm that the statistical aspect of your analysis is performed to the technical standard required for publication. The clarity of figures was addressed by two reviewers with the proposal to order sampling sites in figures 3, 5 and 8 according to flow direction of the river from right to left. Reviewers 2 and 3 have proposed a couple of linguistic improvements (cf. comments/changes in the annotated manuscripts) which you should carefully follow for the revision, including the avoidance of repetitions.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 17, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript has a clear structure which meets the requirements of an international journal. It is written in professional English, and the literature mentioned in the introduction is relevant and reflects the state of the art. This shows that the authors are experts in their field. The figures and tables are relevant and are high quality, but some of them could be improved to make it easier to compare the sampling points with the flow direction of the river. Figure 3, Figure 5 and Figure 8 would be easier to understand if the order of the sampling stations were similar to the flow direction of the river Barycz, with RI, T1… starting on the right side of the graph. Another comment concerns Table 2, where taxa, groups and, in the last line, the number of taxa are listed. It would be helpful to provide information regarding how the groups are related to the number of taxa. Maybe you could add a sentence in the table heading. The raw data offered corresponded to the PeerJ policy, but please add the units.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The focus of the paper is to provide information about the development of metazooplankton in a river, based on river dams and the outlets of carp ponds. The findings are new, because previously published studies have only considered the influence of dams on the plankton community in large rivers, whereas the influence of ponds used for fish culture on the plankton community in rivers has not been considered until now. This means that this paper includes original primary research which is within the scope of the journal. The standard of the investigation is appropriate, however, the manuscript would be improved by adding some more information about the sampling sites: 1) information about why you used these sampling points (and not others), 2) information about whether the water samples from the free-flowing section were collected through successive sampling using a Lagrangian sampling strategy and 3) information about the interaction between the carp ponds and the regulated channels. Perhaps an example outline would be helpful. Do you have information about the water from the outlets (e.g. plankton, nutrients and seston)? I had the impression from your description that the water samples are “only” from the channels.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are new (see the paragraph regarding the experimental design) and meaningful for understanding the riverine community. There are two additional points which could be discussed: 1) What influence the observed development will have on the Oder River is one point for discussion. Do you think that the River Barycz is a promotor of the plankton densities in the Oder zooplankton community? 2) Your findings could also be interesting for the European Water Framework Directive. The data were analysed with appropriate mathematical methods, and the latest literature is included. I recommend the publication of this interesting and important paper. The expected changes are minor ones which could help to improve the clarity and the scope of the paper.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Spatial changes in zooplankton communities in a strong human-mediated river ecosystem (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5087v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Abstract: Should be rewriten. There is no one word on methods used, and results are not sufficiently described. If an aim of the paper was to examine the effects of carp ponds and dams, then what was a hypothesis? It should be given in Abstract and Introduction. Table 2. Should be Brachionus calyciflorus and Scaridium longicaudum Figures are not generally bad, but extremely difficult to understand if you have not enough time to spend on looking for explanations. The manuscript is full of unnecessary introductory phrases as: „regarding”, „it is worth”, „moreover”, „it must bepointed” etc. The are also my remarks in the manuscript (pdf) attached
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Well performed investigations sufficiently described in the manuscript
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Spatial changes in zooplankton communities in a strong human-mediated river ecosystem (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5087v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Apr 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
There should be a more carefull use of English language. They way it is, the authors are trying to explain their point and repear the same thing in consecutive sentenses with different words. Proper language use will allow for this repeatition to be avoided, the text to become more concise and to the point. Literature reference mostly OK Structure of the article OK, raw data available results relevant to hypotheses
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The manuscript deals with a very interesting subject, within the Scope of the Journal, the effect of the dams on species distribution, especially zooplankton which lately understudied in freshwater ecosystems due to the fact that it is excluded by the WFD 2000/60. Also a very strong asset of this study is the large data set. They define the research questions and apply standard methods sufficiently described
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
As I already stated, a very strong asset of this study is the large data set. But in the wordy text the authors fail to link their results with the conclusions
Comments for the author
My specific comments can be found directly on the PDF Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Spatial changes in zooplankton communities in a strong human-mediated river ecosystem (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5087v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 24, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
