Review History for Novel inflammatory cell infiltration scoring system to investigate healthy and footrot affected ovine interdigital skin [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Novel inflammatory cell infiltration scoring system to investigate healthy and footrot affected ovine interdigital skin To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 9th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 1st, 2018. The first revision was submitted on June 2nd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 6th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Javier Alvarez-Rodriguez
·
Jun 6, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I confirm that the reviewers' comments have been addressed thoroughly. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Jennifer Vonk, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 2, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Javier Alvarez-Rodriguez
·
May 1, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
We apologize for delay in revisions. Please, find attached reviewer comments that must be addressed throughout the manuscript in order to improve the experimental design setting and validity of the findings.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 5, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript reports a histopathological comparison of interdigital skin lesions of healthy and footrot affected sheep. The manuscript correctly matches with the scope of the journal. It is correctly described and English language is properly used. The general structure is according to the standards of the journal and is clear for the reader. Figures are of great quality and represent the main findings that the authors stated in the manuscript. Minor editing points of criticism have been detected in lines: 236 to 238: necrophorum (Egerton et al. 1969). Parakeratosis may trigger the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1ß (Chang et al. 1992) which in-turn MEDIATES the recruitment of inflammatory cells. 278. 278 polymicrobial disease of bovine feet, digital DERMATITIS, no association was found between 358: Total DNA was extracted from sequential 40 µm horizontal sections of 6mm punch biopsies of from… 360: enumerate total bacterial DNA AND detect…
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors should reconsider the title of the manuscript because it doesn’t reflect the findings of the study. What is novel in the research is the “inflammatory cell infiltration scoring system”. The rest of the study shows that the histopathology findings are quite similar both in healthy and affected sheep. Nevertheless, the title can also include all the descriptive work that has been done. About this second affirmation, is missing in the discussion part why the histopathological findings are similar in healthy and footrot affected animals. Are the clinical findings correctly diagnosed?. Are we underdiagnosing footrot animals?. The animals are suffering an subclinical disease?. Please, reconsider all this topics and discus in the manuscript. The investigation presented is in agreement with the scope of the journal. The methodology is rigorously described and the experiments are reproducible.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Although results are presented whose findings are inconclusive, it is considered that it can help the scientific community to continue with this study in a rigorous manner. The data presented is strong and the statistical analysis is well applied. Conclusions are well stated.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Novel inflammatory cell infiltration scoring system to investigate healthy and footrot affected ovine interdigital skin (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5097v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 30, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper by Agbaje et al. studies by histopathological methods natural cases of ovine footrot together with etiological and some immunological approaches in relation with the lesions. Not too much work has been done on this particular disease, especially in the pathogenesis of the lesions. In this sense, the paper would contribute This is a well-written and clearly presented paper that includes representative and high-quality figures that clarify the histological findings reported in the paper. The literature review is accurate and up-to-date.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
There are some concerns concerning this paper: -The aim of the study is not clear at all, more than performing a grading of histological lesions. - It is not clear enough the aim prosecuted by the study of IL1beta mRNA expression in association with the lesions. Considering the samples and material, they should have made an attempt to go further into pathogenesis of the lesion, as they try to, when measure IL1betta expression. It could be examined the relationship of its expression with the presence of different cell populations, location of lesions, etc. -Why the authors have chosen this particular cytokine and no other, including inflammatory mediators, that would have given more information on the development of the lesions in relation with the host immune response? -The methods for the histological studies are classical and well-presented. In relation to HE staining, why the authors have decided to treat the samples with acetic spirits and ammoniated water? Which are the advantages respect to conventional HE staining? -Methods for bacteriological and statistical analysis seem to be appropriate. -Which criteria have been taken into account for the gross classification of the samples into healthy and footrot affected? Please, state in the material and methods section.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The main lack of this work is the scarce novelty of the scoring system the authors have proposed. They classify the inflammatory infiltrate according to the intensity, following a very classical pathological scoring system. Moreover, there are other facts that they also consider, but separately. Putting all together, they do not find any difference between healthy and diseased samples. All the histological findings considered are classical and have been previously well described and reported, as is mentioned in the paper. The authors should have made a more ambitious attempt of classification putting considering all the changes together and giving a particular score to each animal, and try to find a cut-off value to discriminate between healthy and footrot affected animals. This would help to the diagnosis and future studies on pathogenesis. Regarding the role of IL1beta, the authors have just measured the mRNA expression of this cytokine. It would be of interest to assess the protein expression by immunohistochemistry, in relation with the lesions. The study made on the presence of different bacteria in association do not provide new or relevant findings. The role of the different bacteria have been elucidated in others papers of the group. The presence in the various depths of the lesion is the only new finding, but its relevancy is not well-stablished.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Novel inflammatory cell infiltration scoring system to investigate healthy and footrot affected ovine interdigital skin (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5097v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 9, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
