Review History for Honey reduces the metastatic characteristics of prostate cancer cell lines by promoting a loss of adhesion [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Honey reduces the metastatic characteristics of prostate cancer cell lines by promoting a loss of adhesion To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 9th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 10th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 28th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 7th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Maria Deli
·
Jun 7, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All the comments were adequately answered. Please correct the sentence in the discussion at line 420 (marked up copy) or line 452 (pdf) which seems to be unfinished, during the final production phase. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 28, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Maria Deli
·
Apr 10, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I appreciated the comparative nature of the study in terms of the analysis of phenolic compounds and the biological effects - migration, invasion and adhesion. I find it complex and well designed, but amendment is needed. Major points to address: 1. clear emphasis on the novelty of the study as compared to the literature 2. although the aims of the study is clearly stated, and the mechanism of action was not among them, both reviewers expressed that mechanistic aspects are missing. Potential action of the phenolic compounds and their differences need to be discussed. 3. justification of the selection of the prostate cancer cell lines 4. Unfortunately several cell lines were mixed up in labs in the past and many results became questionable in the literature. There are strict guidelines related to the use of cell lines. The cell lines used in the study come from another laboratory. Were they purchased from a reliable source like ATCC? Were they tested for authenticity? What was the passage number used? Minor: 1. Table 1. Retention time and spectra should be removed. Spectra are already given in methods. Retention time can be added to results. For concentrations numbers with one decimal digit would be enough precise. 2. Methods: Please use "Cell culture" instead of "maintenance". 3. Boyden chamber Were these commercially available culture inserts, like Transwells from Costar? The parameters (membrane type, multiwell type) and the supplier need to be specified. 4. It is clear that the effects were compared to control groups on Fig. 2-5. Please make it more clear by harmonizing the labels on Y axes and specifying what was the vehicle in both the methods and on all figure legends. Importantly, what was the final concentration of DMSO in the treatment media?
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 29, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Abel et al in this manuscript have attempted to demonstrate the anti-metastatic activity of various honey from N. Zealand (Thyme, Manuka and Honey Due) using prostate cancer cells PC-3 and DU-145 cells. The authors do not highlight any mechanisms to suggest their hypothesis. Reported literature already suggests honey as an anti-metastatic agent having ability to alter matrix metalloproteinases. Therefore the work performed by authors is not new to this area of investigation though their experiments have a direct approach suggesting the anti-metastatic action of honey.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors list the phenolic contents of honey. The authors have not accounted for the difference in the contents in all three honey: Thyme, Manuka and Honey Due . This might suggest the difference in the activity which may differ from the other. Figure 1-5 have not used a vehicle control in their experiment to make a comparison. The authors did not show the effect of honey on the proteins involved in metastasis (invasion or migration or adhesion) to effectively draw conclusions from a mechanistic point.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors have used two aggressive prostate cancer cell lines to prove their hypothesis. It would be ideal if they use some more metastatic cell lines along with a normal cell counterpart.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Additional experiments are needed to substantiate these results. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Honey reduces the metastatic characteristics of prostate cancer cell lines by promoting a loss of adhesion (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5115v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 31, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Background is clear
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Research question well defined and methods as well
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data is robust and the conclusion are well stated
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this paper, Baird present that Honey can reduce the metastatic characteristics of prostate cancer cell lines by promoting a loss of adhesion . The manuscript is well written. Although the manuscript contains some valuable information obtained in vitro experiments. So, the article possess a practical value. In the background of the study the purpose of the article is clearly stated, data is robust and statistically sound, the conclusion is well stated and limited to supporting results. However some specific comments are cited below; 1.Catenin is a protein, originally described as an integral part of intercellular adhesion system. Today it is considered an oncoprotein likely to activate proliferation and inhibit apoptosis. why it was not studied 2.Since honey is mixture of phenolic compounds how it’s possible to exprime the concentration in nM ? Table 1 shows the concentrations of free and total phenols found in the thyme, manuka and honeydew honeys, as both µg/100g of honey and in nM (page 11line 255 and 256) 3.Gallic acid concentration at 1082.88 ± 16.25 µg/100g is the equivalent of 10,8 mg/g it seems very low to exert any activity (page 11 line 259) 4.How Sugars can act as antioxidants in the body, in a similar way to that reported for polyphenols as reported in page 19 line 450 (It was necessary to carry out the DPPH test to evaluate the antioxidant activity of honeys). 5.The polyphenols found in honeys are the same found in propolis from the same regions. why the authors did not compare the honey and propolis activities ? 6.Indeed, The honey inhibitory activity of MMP3 and 9 is low compared to that observed with a phenolic compound of Algerian propolis (Segueni et al, 20011 Planta Medica). Chicoric acid inhibits MMP-3, MMP-7 and MMP-9 with IC 50 of 0.63, 0.10 and 2.38 ug / ml 7.why the authors did not realize western blotting to quantify the variations of the tumoral proteins like integrins, intracellular signalling proteins, fibronectin…? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Honey reduces the metastatic characteristics of prostate cancer cell lines by promoting a loss of adhesion (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5115v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 9, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
