Review History for Hi-MC: a novel method for high-throughput mitochondrial haplogroup classification [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Hi-MC: a novel method for high-throughput mitochondrial haplogroup classification To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 20th, 2017 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 9th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 29th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 12th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Katherine Pollard
·
Jun 12, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
We are pleased to accept your revised manuscript for publication. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Elena Papaleo, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is clearly written and meets the standard for publication.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Experimental design in the revised version is much more transparent than the original form.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors have addressed all the major queries comprehensively and this has led to a much improved manuscript.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Hi-MC: a novel method for high-throughput mitochondrial haplogroup classification (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5149v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 29, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Katherine Pollard
·
Jan 9, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The reviewer suggestions look addressable, and we look forward to your revision.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors should provide a more detailed statistical basis for their haplogroup selection criteria. Why certain SNP combinations are better representatives in the minimalistic tree. Also the authors should provide some statistical analyses of genetic variation within each population, for example between ethnic groups. In large number of mtDNA haplogroup studies many mtDNAs in a data set can not be assigned to the recognized haplogroups. To identify new basal lineages whole mtDNA sequencing is a must. How does Hi-MC handle this problem which can confound haplogroup assigments. The authors should elaborate their rank calculation method mathematically. Without the exact details its difficult to assess the exact working of the algorithm. For example how does the algorithm incorporate the phylogenetic weight of each polymorphism in a particular combination of SNPs.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is basically the same as Mitchell et al. Hum Genet. 2014. As mentioned above, without the detailed mathematical presentation of the algorithm its difficult to assess the exact working of the algorithm.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The conclusions are valid and the current limitations are well documented but the authors need to put some effort in explaining the basis of these limitations. Why are many Asian-specific haplogroups not well captured? What are the features that need to be improved for the next iteration so that the algorithm will perform well in most populations including Asian ancestry?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors should include a section detailing specific advantages and disadvantages of the different mitochondrial haplogroup classification methods. mtDNA sequencing using NGS methods allow detection of mitochondrial DNA heteroplasmy with minor allele frequencies. The authors should include a section on how a selective SNP set can handle mitochondrial DNA heteroplasmy. Could NuMTs play a bigger confounding role in a selective SNP panel based method given that any NuMT will have a higher mutation accumulation rate than a standard mitochondirail DNA and without the proper sequence context can complicate the results/inferences. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Hi-MC: a novel method for high-throughput mitochondrial haplogroup classification (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5149v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Sahil Seth ·
Jan 7, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript is well written, and a pleasure to read, with appropriate background and detail of the problem. The manuscript suggests (line 110) that more information is available at http://www.icompbio.net . However, that website does not include information on this software. I clicked on several links but was not able to find a link to Hi-MC (a direct link to the page should be provided). The readme file is helpful. However, an example dataset should be provided to enable readers to quickly test the tool before using it on their own data. For example, it was much easier to test drive haplogrep2 than Hi-MC because of the available testdata (https://haplogrep.uibk.ac.at). The release of source code is appreciated (unlike haplogrep2), along with MtoolBox and Phy-mer etc. Authors are comparing with Haplogrep (Human Mutation 2011), though a newer method (haplogrep2) was released in July 2016, including an updated webserver.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
It would be encouraging to see the R packing on CRAN/Bioconductor instead of GitHub. It provides confidence regarding the stability of the code, and enables better version control for reproducibility (especially Bioconductor).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
As previous reviewers have pointed out; comparisons with other methods are critical to motivate readers to adopt this new tool. Along with Hapmap, 1000g data from phase 1, 3 and Li et al, can be used to benchmark the tool vs haplogrep, haplogrep 2 and Phy-Mer etc Further, use of a custom Phylotree (a version of figure 1 Mitchell et al) can be tested with haplogrep 2 (standalone version), to compare the two tools using the same reference. Although results are described well in the text, the accuracy of the findings at different resolutions can be conveyed in a graphical form. For example, figure 1 from Mitchell et. al can be used as a template and nodes can be used to display the number of correctly and incorrectly classified individuals per node (totaling haplogroups below the node). This should be done for Hi-MC and Haplogrep 2, and a supplementary table of the results of these two methods can be used to drive the discussion.
Cite this review as
Seth S ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Hi-MC: a novel method for high-throughput mitochondrial haplogroup classification (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5149v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 20, 2017 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
