Review History for Whale shark economics: a valuation of wildlife tourism in South Ari Atoll, Maldives [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Whale shark economics: a valuation of wildlife tourism in South Ari Atoll, Maldives To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 8th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 13th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on July 9th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 23rd, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
David Johnston
·
Jul 23, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revisions on this article clearly address the minor concerns presented during review, and I think it is now ready for publication in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 9, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Johnston
·
May 13, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The paper is well written, concise and needs some minor revisions to be acceptable for publication in PeerJ. Reviewer number 1 provides important guidance on the statistical treatment of the data that should be addressed prior to publication. In particular, assessing any potential effects of sampling effort bias and providing greater detail on the model outputs are essential in any revised manuscript. Reviewer 1 also identifies the need to explain some terminology to get the reader up to speed, and has a suggestion for a revised title which I think is a good idea.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 23, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Generally I found the paper well written. The authors seem to have been careful justifying their choices of models and data, and the story flowed well.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I have only a few major questions/concerns described below (by order of importance): 1.Sampling effort bias: oIn Fig. 3, could the curve observed be an artifact of sampling? Please include a similar curve (i.e., overall spatial coverage) for the sampling effort in the same chart. oAlso, it would be good to see the sampling effort in the temporal charts (weekly and per season). oAuthors did not seem to have accounted for this bias in the models – but it can highly influence results.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
2.Prediction results and procedure used: oIt was not clear how the authors used the models to predict as there is not validation or prediction results shown (except for the one main result for each response variable). Is Table 5 a modelling result? Please clarify in the legend and present details on how you achieved these results. oIt seems that the model used the daily estimates obtained by the survey as response variable and then the authors predicted a response for each day of the year (?) and then added these all up to get to a year value? The procedure used needs to be clearly explained, and if the calculations were made per day, then these could be shown in a chart where you would also plot the sampled data for comparison. oBecause there were no surveys done in some months, I would suggest the authors to be careful presenting predictions for those months. Perhaps, show values with and without those months included.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Generally I found the paper well written. The authors seem to have been careful justifying their choices of models and data, and the story flowed well. I have only a few major questions/concerns described below (by order of importance): 1.Sampling effort bias: oIn Fig. 3, could the curve observed be an artifact of sampling? Please include a similar curve (i.e., overall spatial coverage) for the sampling effort in the same chart. oAlso, it would be good to see the sampling effort in the temporal charts (weekly and per season). oAuthors did not seem to have accounted for this bias in the models – but it can highly influence results. 2.Prediction results and procedure used: oIt was not clear how the authors used the models to predict as there is not validation or prediction results shown (except for the one main result for each response variable). Is Table 5 a modelling result? Please clarify in the legend and present details on how you achieved these results. oIt seems that the model used the daily estimates obtained by the survey as response variable and then the authors predicted a response for each day of the year (?) and then added these all up to get to a year value? The procedure used needs to be clearly explained, and if the calculations were made per day, then these could be shown in a chart where you would also plot the sampled data for comparison. oBecause there were no surveys done in some months, I would suggest the authors to be careful presenting predictions for those months. Perhaps, show values with and without those months included. 3.All tables, equations and charts: oNeed better descriptions and need to include the meaning of all symbols used. E.g., eq. 1 is not explained in the text. Table S1, does not mention the meaning of symbols. 4.Economic analysis: oA better introduction to the different types of economic analysis could be included in the introduction to make it clear that this approach is new. It starts directly with ‘direct spend’ without previous introduction to the subject. Also, I suggest using italics when referring to ‘direct spend’ to make it clear that the reference is to a method. 5.Title could be shortened and / or improved. Suggestion: ‘Economic impact of whale shark tourism in South Ari Atoll, Maldives’ I also include some minor comments: -Abstract: change ‘2012-1013’ to ‘2012 and 2013’ -Replace ’72 to 798 thousand’ with 72 000 -78 000’ (throughout the paper) -Include references: lines 13/14 and 36 -Line 73-75: I like this and think it could be developed in the first paragraph of Introduction (and then in the Discussion as well) to broaden the scope of the paper and its relevance -Line 208-209: was this info used as strategy for sampling? How does it bias the results? -Line 218: which techniques? -Lines 249 – 253: not clear. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Whale shark economics: a valuation of wildlife tourism in South Ari Atoll, Maldives (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.515v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Alistair Dove ·
May 5, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a very well written article that addresses and important issue in the conservation management of marine megafauna ecotourism: how valuable is a living animal population to a nation's economy. Specifically, what direct value does whale shark ecotourism in Sth Ari Atoll, Maldives have? While I am not an economics researcher, the survey design seems appopriate and the statistical methods are similar to those used in scientific analyses. I can find no major flaws with the design, the analysis or the interpretation and have no substantive criticisms of the writing in this manuscript and so I recommend that it be published as is. Cite this review as
Dove AD ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Whale shark economics: a valuation of wildlife tourism in South Ari Atoll, Maldives (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.515v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 8, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
