Review History for Crystal structure of human Acinus RNA recognition motif domain [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Crystal structure of human Acinus RNA recognition motif domain To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 18th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 30th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on June 13th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 15th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Jun 15, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
In the revised version, all the critical points raised by the reviewers were completely addressed, and the manuscript was amended accordingly. Therefore, the revised version is acceptable in present form. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Pedro SIlva, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 13, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Apr 30, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As you can see, all three reviewers provided very positive and constructive comments. Please address all critiques raised by all reviewers and revise your manuscript accordingly.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 25, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is well-written to present the structure of the Acinus RRM domain. There are a few points which could be improved: Line 33: "includes the RRM domain" - This makes it sound as though the RRM is part of p17 and not vice versa. Line 36: location of the caspase-3 target sequence - the text in parenthesis - typically, the references are made starting from the N-terminus and going towards the C-terminus. Also, the current description with 4 AA apart is a little non-scientific. Line 46: Eponymous - please simplify to ensure international audience can easily understand the text Lines 76-94: The introduction section gives a through background on Acinus and is extremely well-cited. But lines 76-94 come across as lines of facts stated, which are not particularly adding to the background. In my opinion, some of the references could be combined together to make it sound like a story. And, maybe even include some background on the C-terminal helix (Optional). Line 182: Artifact spelling Line 260: "right in the middle" - it is a little colloquial Figure 2 Legend last line - it should be disulfide "bond" I would like to add that the figures are well made and the consistency in the color scheme is definitely helpful to the reader. The color for the RNA strand in Figure 6B could be changed to better distinguish it (optional).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Line 215-232: The section on "comparison with other RRM structures" - the manuscript presents a good comparison of Acinus RRM with other existing structures. While, the article discusses the findings from overlaying with RNA15 and U1A (basically figure 4 and 6), the discussion for figure 5 is missing. Rest of the figures have a clear finding that adds to the story and conclusions of the paper. But, what is being learnt from figure 5 that gets added to the conclusion of the entire paper? I would like to add that the comparison with RNA15 and U1A are well presented. Though for figure 4A : the PDB for RNA15 shows the presence of a C-terminal helix, which is missing in the figure.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I would like to commend the authors on successfully solving the structure of Acinus RRM. Overall, the manuscript is well written and conveys the relevance of the work. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Crystal structure of human Acinus RNA recognition motif domain (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5163v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jose Manuel Pérez-Cañadillas ·
Apr 28, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is written in a clear language and is easy to read. The introduction is well written and serves to place the research into the structural and biology context. Nevertheless I found the sentence in line 71 a bit confusing because it is not clear to me if serine phosphorylation refers to caspase-3 residues or to acinus (they seem to be very far from the RRM). It is also unclear to me if caspase-3 also causes cleavage at N-terminus of Acinus p17 form Figures are of high quality, although it is advisable to include labels for secondary structure elements for easy following descriptions in the text. In particular when comparing with other RRM structures. References are well chosen in general. Perhaps the example of Csft64 (Perez-Canadillas and Varani 2003, EMBO J) should be mentioned in line 255 as an early case of a C-terminal helix blocking the RNA binding interface. The PDB code (6G6S) of AcRRM should be reported in the article and in Figure 2 The PDB validation report has been provided. The structural data is of good quality.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Molecular biology and crystallographic methods are described in good detail. I noticed this RRM domain has not been automatically annotated in the protein database, perhaps due to non-canonical RNP1 and RNP2 motifs. Because no experimental binding data has been presented, discussion about the RNA recognition properties should be based in a thorough bioinformatics analysis. However I believe that it is poorly presented in this case. For instance in figure 3 B a conservation map is shown over the structure, however it is not clear which Acinus homologues have been chosen to build this map. A figure with a sequence alignment of acinus homologues from different species should be provided at least as supplementary data. I have check (blast) that Acinus RRM is very similar to Fox1 with sequence identity much higher (around 31%) than for UA1 and RNA15. Structural comparison with Fox1 should be included in the analysis (lines 200 to 208)
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The article describes the structure of human Acinus RNA recognition motif that contain a basic RRM-like fold with an extra C-terminus helix. Although there are similar structures with this extra secondary element in similar configuration, the novelty of Acinus RRM is that the C-terminal helix contains the cleavage site of caspase-3, which is being proposed by the authors as a possible regulator of RNA binding activity. Nevertheless such hypothesis is only presented at theoretical level and there is not experimental validation. The article would benefit from doing simple binding experiments (e.g. EMSA with Acinus RRM and C-terminal truncated mutants). The protein crystalizes as a disulphide crosslinked dimer (Figure 2). In my opinion, authors overlook the potential biological significance of this finding. They mention cysteine 1083 is conserved across species but at the same time claim that the disulphide bridge is probably a crystallization artefact. It should be noticed that the RNA binding properties of a dimer would be dramatically different to the monomer. Hence a more detailed investigation of the oligomerization state of this protein in solutions seems mandatory to me. I would suggest simple gel filtration experiments comparing wild type and C1083 mutant (e.g. to Ser) behaviour under oxidizing and reducing conditions. In my opinion some parts of the article are of little relevance and describe vague concepts: Lines between 209 and 213 describe two very small insertions in loops, which I think of little significance giving the high variability of loops across the different RRMs. I recommend removing this paragraph. Lines 269-278 discuss some common themes in RRM RNA recognition, suggesting that Acinus RRM might follow similar strategies. But there are no real evidences/clues/hints in this work that support any of these mechanisms, apart that the RRM fold. I regard this part as superfluous
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
At the light of the structure, the potential biological significance of AcRRM dimerization should be experimentally addressed or at least discussed in comparison with other RRM homodimers Comparative band shift experiments with wild-type and a C-terminal truncated version (at caspase site) should be performed to provide some experimental foundations for the discussion. Cite this review as
Pérez-Cañadillas JM ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Crystal structure of human Acinus RNA recognition motif domain (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5163v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Apr 30, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript is well written for the most part, but there are several grammatical errors which make sentences confusing, as well as several instances where words appear to be missing. The use of commas needs to be improved throughout the manuscript. The figures are well put together, but there are some issues with clarity. The following issues should be addressed with the manuscript and figures before publication... 1)Figure 4A and 4B. Change the colors of the other RRM’s to be different from one another. Having both be light grey and dark grey gives the impression that you are showing two different conformations of the same protein. Additionally, the left most black arrow in 4A is pointing to a different spot in 4B. My understanding is that they should both be pointing to the same place. 2)Figure 5C-5E. The light grey is very hard to see. Change this to a more visible color. Additionally, what is the purple highlighting representing in these figures? I did not see this stated in the caption for 5B-E, but it was mentioned for 5A. Is it the same thing for B-E? Please clarify. 3)Figure 5 Caption. Silver-Blue is not the best way to describe the color. Purple would be better. 4)Figure 5A. Why is RNP2 presented first, when throughout the manuscript and in the caption RNP1 is mentioned before RNP2? Move the RNP1 alignment to before the RNP2 alignment, unless this was for a specific reason. 5)Figure 2 Caption. Change “bound” to “bond” and change “artefact” to “artifact”. Also, clarify in the caption that the disulfide bond is between C1083 from different chains. 6)Capitalize the letters in all presented PDB codes (i.e. PDB code 5FJ4). 7)Line 124. Add “a” before HiTrap. 8)Change all mentioned amino acid residues to one letter code and number throughout the manuscript. On line 68, for example, the residue is listed as aspartic acid 1093, but D1093 is more appropriate. 9)In the Crystallization portion of the methods, please provide the vendor for the Index Screen. This is especially important as this screen gave the crystal used for data collection. 10)Line 171. Change “restrains” to “restraints” 11)Line 182. Change “artefact” to “artifact” 12)In the Results section, Figure 2A is never referred to. 13)Line 195. Change “extents” to “extends” 14)Line 212. Change “the loop 5” to “loop 5” 15)Line 242. Change “few” to “several” 16)Please revise the sentence starting at line 244 and ending at 246. It is a bit unclear in its current form. 17)Line 267. Point (ii) is very unclear. Please revise. 18)Line 63-64. Please add commas to this sentence. In its current form it seems to be a run-on sentence and is a bit unclear. Commas in the appropriate places would help the clarity.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The structure reported is novel, and seems to be the first reported structure of the human Acinus RRM domain, but the authors never explicitly state this fact. A cursory search of the PDB returns no other published structures of this protein. If it is indeed the first time this protein structure is being reported, this fact should be added to the manuscript.
Comments for the author
I would recommend this manuscript for publication, provided all issues are addressed. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Crystal structure of human Acinus RNA recognition motif domain (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5163v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 18, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
