Review History for Satellite tracking of juvenile whale sharks in the Sulu and Bohol Seas, Philippines [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Satellite tracking of juvenile whale sharks in the Sulu and Bohol Seas, Philippines To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 8th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 24th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on June 3rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on June 21st, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 25th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Mark Benfield
·
Jun 25, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the issues in the revised manuscript. Your manuscript is now satisfactory for acceptance. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by David Roberts, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 21, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Mark Benfield
·
Jun 18, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Your manuscript is greatly improved and you have addressed the comments raised by the reviewers. I found a few minor issues that need to be addressed and have marked them in the attached file. These shouldn't take more than a few minutes for you to address.
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 3, 2018
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mark Benfield
·
Apr 24, 2018
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Three reviewers familiar with this field have reviewed your manuscript and their consensus decision is that the study merits publication but requires major revisions. All three reviewers have included numerous suggestions/recommendations for improvements. Please address these comments. Several reviewers commented on the need to improve grammar including standardizing on either active or passive voice. There were also numerous cases where citations were incomplete or where you can replace self-citations / personal communications /unpublished with valid citations. I look forward to reading a substantially improved submission that addresses the three reviewers comments.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 28, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript suffers from a variety of grammatical issues. These include: 1) Interrupted sentence structure 2) Word misuse 3) Subjective statements 4) Out of place wording/sentences As for references, in general there is a considerable amount of background material and context. However, the authors appear to over-cite themselves continuously via "pers obs." The structure of the article generally has professional appeal, but there are multiple (albeit fixable) stylistic issues documented in the figures and tables.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The proposed work fits within the journal's Aims and Scope as it involves novel biological/environmental research. There were no major hypotheses to be tested, but a very applied question was addressed using towed-float satellite telemetry to explore movement patterns of a shark species of major economic concern. This technique was utilized with generally high technical and ethical standards (although some details were missing).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The investigation was limited based on relatively short duration tracks (generally <60 d); however, these documented important deep-shallow and inshore-offshore habitat connections that will be important for conservation and management planning moving forward. Some of the discussion involving the relationship of movements and prey availability were somewhat weak as there was no sampling of prey concomitant with shark tracking. As such, I feel the authors need to be careful not to extrapolate their findings too extensively, and recognize that there are multiple factors that may explain the patterns they observed over a relatively short-term period.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Please see annotated PDF for your perusal with detailed suggestions on how to improve the manuscript. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Satellite tracking of juvenile whale sharks in the Sulu and Bohol Seas, Philippines (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5231v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 12, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors have added to our knowledge of whale shark dispersal and movements in the Philippines and as such the study merits publication following revisions. The article meets structural requirements and professional english is used throughout. Restructuring of sections would improve understanding and flow and remove redundancies. The manuscript requires more primary literature cited, notably where comparable work has been conducted years previously. The authors need to state their hypotheses while further strengthening the rationale for the study, and tie their discussion and conclusions into these.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research fills a geographical knowledge gap for the target species and uses commonly used tracking technology and analytical methods. However, this manuscript requires a stated research question.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data is robust. Conclusions would need to be linked to the research question when this is formulated and included.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors have added to our knowledge of whale shark dispersal and movements in the Philippines and as such the study merits publication. The analyses are standard but the manuscript would benefit from strengthening through the removal of redundancies, restructuring of text and sections, choosing a voice, as noted below. Specifically: The authors may wish to articulate in their introduction greater emphasis on a strong justification for this research, also necessary to detail are the research questions that they surely used when formulating this study and the basis for deploying satellite tags (see lines 92-99). This would further help restructure and shorten the abstract to reflect answers to the research questions asked as opposed to a run-down of movement results. Ensure identification and recognition of earliest researchers in the area e.g. LN 78 should cite Quiros 2007 and Pine et al. 2007. Instead of “Authors unpublished data” for # of sharks identified, cite Wildbook for Whale Sharks database at www.whaleshark.org. Remove pers. Comms if you already have a citation eg LN 93. In the same vein the authors need to reduce their Authors unpublished data annotations throughout the manuscript, especially where citations exist eg Quiros 2007 noted above. LN 92-99 setting up the premise for the study but needs to set up the justification first of why it’s a high priority for research and also note who set this priority. Then move into the research questions that will be answered by the methods used. Methods Streamline methods to avoid integrating elements for introduction/results/discussion. Study sites needs to focus on the sites. All other information and other studies can be appended to the introduction or discussion where it is more appropriate. Why are the authors using two photo Identification methods (wildbook and i3s) when wildbook can provide a site specific database as well? Need to explain this further in methods, results and discussion. Authors need to chose a voice – active or passive – and stick with it. Methods contains a mix of both. Results Suggest the authors follow the same sequence of the study’s elements in methods as in the results for better flow, eg. Photo ID then tagging, which would also intuitively place the sizing and sexing with the photo ID followed by tagging which usually takes place post ID. Also suggest that the tagging/distances be combined with the horizontal movements to reduce redundancies and ensure that a figure with tagging locations overlaid with movements leads the results on that section. LN 233 Assumption that the whale shark carried the tag into the Pacific; could currents have carried it there if detached in the Sulu sea? LN 245 Specify temperature and or ranges when mentioning “cooler” Time at temperature: suggest creating a composite figure for all tagged sharks to identify patterns in time spent at temperatures to compare to shark 818. Discussion Suggest a restructuring of the discussion and conclusions to reduce redundancy within and between sections, improve flow and provide support for the importance of this study. Specifically, there is a need to set up a strong introduction and tie into your questions. Too quickly jumping into the implications at LN 262 and along the discussion subsections. Expand citations from comparable studies that preceded Rohner to include diel vertical migration. LN 330 remove “displaying strong inter-annual philopatry to the site (Authors, unpublished data)” Acknowledgements Include the research permit number and year provided. Figures Fig 3 – need to outline the natural park it is not showing up on the provided figures Fig 5 include x axis timeline and add a composite for all sharks tracked to tease out diel patterns of time at temp preferences. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Satellite tracking of juvenile whale sharks in the Sulu and Bohol Seas, Philippines (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5231v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Apr 15, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The authors are clear and unambiguous in most of the paper (there is a need for more quantitative estimates in the discussion. All citations, figures and references are well done.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
This is a very well done study with 17 satellite tracked whale sharks. The experimental design and post hoc treatment of the data (filters) are well described.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Data is robust and conclusion are well stated. However, some opinions are given in the discussion that do not seem to be justified in the current context of the paper.
Comments for the author
This is a data rich (17 spot tagged whale sharks) study that investigates the movement and residence time of an endangered and popular target species. Overall, I think the manuscript is in good shape and recommend its publication in peer J. There results that “juvenile whale sharks and their affinity not only to coastal areas, but also to offshore habitats, and reinforce our understanding of their connectivity across the Sulu and Bohol Seas, and thus highlighting the importance of the area for this endangered species” seems well supported by their data. I have few minor issues that should be addressed. In the abstract the claim is made “Whale sharks transited through TRNP, suggesting that these remote atolls might be used as navigational waypoints rather than as a feeding aggregation.” I don’t believe the authors can offer this fine of a mechanistic understanding. While interesting, I don’t think the data suggest that the islands are used as navigational waypoints and suggest deleting this reference. Line 122-123 . “in 2014 there was a substantial increase in the number of sightings and thus selected as a tagging location” A little more detail here would be useful to the reader. Why was there a sudden increase (more observational opportunities, recovery of the population?) Line 138-143, this should be in the results section. Line 260 “Some whale sharks displayed strong site fidelity” be more quantitative what does “some” mean? Line 263 “they still spend a substantial proportion of their time offshore” define substantial. **In general there is a lack of quantitative details in the discussion, the data is clearly available to define these qualitative terms better. Line 283-286. “The presence of whale sharks at TRNP could be linked to foraging – or cleaning, as has been documented in Malpelo Island, Colombia (Quimbayo et al., 2017) – though neither activity has been reported to date. Therefore, it is more likely that TRNP is used as a navigational waypoint by whale sharks traveling through the Sulu Sea” Again, I think this is too far of a jump. It may be a possibility but the others (although not reported) seem just as likely if not more likely to me. Line 294 “little time” please define. Line 354-357. Whale sharks clearly move between areas and thus unsustainable tourism practices (e.g. provisioning, overcrowding, seasonal captivity) at one site have the potential of affecting the population at large. Though legislation is only the first step, it is a necessary tool to safeguard the sustainable future of this Endangered species. While I agree with the statement, I think this conclusion is not supported and beyond the scope of the paper. It is an opinion that should be further expanded into an opinion paper but doesn’t belong in the current paper. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Satellite tracking of juvenile whale sharks in the Sulu and Bohol Seas, Philippines (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5231v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 8, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
