Review History for Japanese knotweed (Fallopia japonica): an analysis of capacity to cause structural damage (compared to other plants) and typical rhizome extension [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Japanese knotweed ( Fallopia japonica ): an analysis of capacity to cause structural damage (compared to other plants) and typical rhizome extension To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 26th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 7th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on June 20th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 26th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Luiz Martinelli
·
Jun 26, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I believe that the authors have addressed all suggestions made by the reviewers in a satisfactory manner. Therefore, I am accepting this manuscript in its present form. Congratulations! # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Sheila McCormick, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 20, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Luiz Martinelli
·
May 7, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers found your manuscript interesting and are in favor of publication. However, there some details that you have take care before final acceptance. Please make these final adjustments and re-submit your paper. You are almost there! Good luck with your revision!
label_author_1
Katerina Berchová ·
May 2, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
-The text is clear, unambiguous, professional English language used -Introduction and background is OK, literature well referenced and relevant. The spreading modes description is missing (vegetative regeneration and possible generative reproduction) -Structure is OK -Figures and tables are clear, high quality and relevant
Experimental design
label_ed_1
-Original primary research on actual topic -Questions are well defined, clear and relevant -Methods of study are well described, but the statistical analysis used is missing.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
-Validity of results is high as well as the novelty of findings -Conclusions are well stated, linked to original research questions and limited to study results
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I appreciate the topic of the study and serious research in this field. I suggest to the authors add the topic of presence of other taxa of the genus Fallopia, mainly the hybrid F. ×bohemica, which can cause similar damages as F. japonica. I also miss the mention of regeneration ability form rhizomes and possible generative spread (within the genus) – my suggestion is to add least short paragraph on this topic. The description of statistical analysis used is missing for both, the surveys and the rhizome case study. This is the only weakness of the manuscript and it should be added before Acceptance. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Berchová K ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Japanese knotweed (Fallopia japonica): an analysis of capacity to cause structural damage (compared to other plants) and typical rhizome extension (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5246v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 7, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript, "Japanese knotweed (Fallopia japonica): An analysis of capacity to cause structural damage (compared to other plants) and typical rhizome extension" is interesting and novel. However, I feel that before publication there are major edits to the language and the organization of the manuscript that are required. Please proof read to remove awkward long sentences and redundancy. Specific comments: Line 53: flood not floor Line 63: There is no mention of when knotweed first came to the UK. Consider moving lines 156-164 to the introduction. Line 84: What is a knock-on impact? Lines 120-130: This description of basic physiology of plants is unnecessary. Lines 135-137: Awkward Line 180-182: Missing word? Line 468-471: Redundant. This has been described more than once already.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
METHODS Literature Assessment: Expand the search to include damage by other plants. At a minimum by B. davidii, as it is highlighted in another section and in a table. Impact Survey: Did surveys include questions about other plant species? Rhizome Extent Survey: Include information on how the data was analyzed. RESULTS Literature Assessment: You describe the results of a literature review that is not described by your methods. It reads like a literature review that is not appropriate for a results section. Line 260: "This variable was investigated further" This process should be described in the methods, not the results. Lines 263-276: There is an unnecessary level of detail about soils. Table 4. Replace "Ivy" with "Woody Climbers," or at least be consistent with the text in the body of the manuscript.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I agree with and appreciate the novel findings presented by this manuscript. However, the description of the methods and the clarity of the discussion should be improved. The manuscript is at times redundant. Line 359: Why would a house built prior to 1900 indicate that the damage is correlation/exacerbation and not causation? This conclusion is not clear. Beginning at line 401: You go into great depth with the B. davidii comparison. Please provide more description of this plant in an earlier section.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Japanese knotweed (Fallopia japonica): an analysis of capacity to cause structural damage (compared to other plants) and typical rhizome extension (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5246v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 26, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
