Review History for Phylogenomic relationship and evolutionary insights of sweet potato viruses from the western highlands of Kenya [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Phylogenomic relationship and evolutionary insights of sweet potato viruses from the western highlands of Kenya To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 2nd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 23rd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on June 23rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 27th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ana Grande-Pérez
·
Jun 27, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Laura, Thank you for communicating your work to Peer. Your study adds on to the current knowledge of the evolution of sweetpotato viruses in Kenya. I can see you have responded properly the reviewers comments and I am happy to accept you manuscript for publication. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Keith Crandall, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 23, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ana Grande-Pérez
·
May 23, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I will be glad to receive a point by-point answer to all the reviewers suggestions. Please pay particular attention to those related to format. Also attend the request for availability of sequences and alignments. I agree that your study is relevant enough to merit publication in PeerJ. I expect your modified manuscript and then I will give my decision.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 12, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1. Genome assemblies have been deposited in Genbank, which is commendable, but they do not appear to have been made public yet. The short-read data must also be archived, particularly given that non-free closed-source software was used for assembly. The raw reads presumably contain quite a bit of information about virus sequence variation in the plant sampled (beyond the consensus sequences assembled). 2. Providing the multiple alignments constructed (e.g. in some repository such as Zenodo or figshare) would greatly increase the utility of this analysis. Presumably the alignments were carefully inspected and adjusted, but there is no evidence of this in the text. 3. Tree sizes, font, text size, and panel labels are wildly inconsistent (Figures 1 to 5, supplemental figures 1 to 5). Multiple clade-label lines are ambiguous. 4. No interpretation is provided in the "Analysis of recombination" and "Selection pressure analysis across genes" results sections. Consider moving text from the current discussion into those sections. Breaking up the discussion with section headings and folding the current conclusion section into it could further help balance out the manuscript. 5. Manuscript needs more careful proof-reading.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The sampling method used for this observational study is briefly sketched at the start of the methods section but lack of detail prevents evaluation of the scope of inference. How many samples were collected? How many were judged potyvirus-positive? Just one, as implied by line 162? (A grammatical error renders that sentence ambiguous: "the a sweet potato sample that was positive".) What controls were used for RT-PCR? I see that the authors cite their other preprint for sampling methodology, but that manuscript appears to suffer from a similar lack of detail. The single plant used for RNA-sequencing is described as symptomatic, but no indication is given whether symptoms were typical of infection with the viruses emphasized in the text. The rationale for how sequence data from this single plant can suffice for generalizing about the western highlands of Kenya (per the question stated in lines 122 to 124) is not clear. Genomic analysis in the absence of epidemiological information is fine, but the current manuscript purports to range far beyond that.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
1. The relevance of these results for assessing virus spread by vegetative propagation seem unclear, for the reasons stated above. Lines 474 to 477 appear overstated; compare to lines 389–392. 2. Mixed infection with four viruses from distinct species sounds like a lot, but is it truly surprising? It seems essential to better contextualize this observation and avoid implying that sequencing is necessary or cost-effective for assaying mixed infection. 3. I find the "four out of seven programs agree" criterion for calling recombination strange and the averaging of p-values even more puzzling. Consider adding some justification for these choices.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
1. 3D barcharts (Figure 6) are not a perceptually effective type of data display. 2. Per the ICTV "How to write a virus name" document, capitalize the first letter of the first word in the name. Distinguishing the species from the viruses discussed in a few places might clarify meaning. 3. Consider removing "and evolutionary insights" from the title. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Phylogenomic relationship and evolutionary insights of sweet potato viruses from the western highlands of Kenya (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5254v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 21, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Specific comments Abstract: Line 59 to 61: The statement “Our findings demonstrate the need for clean planting materials as the first line of control….” is not only misleading but also off-of track. The study did not explore anything about clean seed systems, or virus control. Much as a field survey was done, but the paper has predominantly reported computational evidence and for evolutionary insights of sweetpotato viruses. The recommendation should therefore be inline with what the study discovered. There is nothing about seed systems that the research discovered. Main text: The presentation of results and writing style is excellent. However referencing style need to be changed, especially when quoting three or more authors. For example “Tugume, Mukasa and Valkonen, 2016”, this should have been written Tugume et al., 2016. There are many areas where authors need to change this kind of referencing style. Virus names should be italicized through out. In some places this was forgotten, for example Lines 98, 333. Line 145: The heading omitted ‘of’ between screening and virus. After presenting the virus names in full for the first time in the text, the virus abbreviations should be used through out and not repeating the full virus names as has been done many times in the text (Lines, 105, 189-191, 206, 207, 309-311). Lines 280 – 283: “The discordance between the gene trees and the species trees could be attributed to……This statement is a misplacement. It should have been under discussion section. Figures: The molecular evolutionary trees (Figs 1 to 5) should be informative. Explain what the scale mean. Is it substitutions/site?. Also the node values…..what are they? bootstrap values? explain them in legend.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The study was executed well with clear design. However, the authors need to explain number of field samples collected, number of leaf samples used in the lab analysis. This information is key in research design.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Findings could be validated, but details on virus survey as I indicated above (under experimental design) should be presented.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
General comments This manuscript report the findings of a virus study conducted in Kenya. While this paper clearly shows a huge effort in terms of computational analysis, the information on field survey is somehow limited. The paper should present details of the field survey especially sampling strategy, number of samples collected, number of leaf samples used for laboratory extractions, and number of isolates used for sequencing. This information is key in validating the study and providing insights into the field management and epidemic spread of the viruses, which the center pivot of phytopathological research and development. This study adds value to evolution of sweetpotato viruses in Kenya, and application of the results are substantial in computational evolutionary studies. I commend the authors for their good computational analysis. In addition, the manuscript is clearly written in professional, unambiguous language. Otherwise, I recommend the paper for publication with few revisions as highlighted in the specific comments section. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Phylogenomic relationship and evolutionary insights of sweet potato viruses from the western highlands of Kenya (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5254v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 2, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
