Review History for Recent genome reduction of Wolbachia in Drosophila recens targets phage WO and narrows candidates for reproductive parasitism [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Recent genome reduction of Wolbachia in Drosophila recens targets phage WO and narrows candidates for reproductive parasitism To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 11th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 28th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on July 29th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 29th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Abhishek Kumar
·
Jul 29, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for your MS to PeerJ. Congratulations, your MS has been accepted for publication. I hope you will keep this association with PeerJ and publish again in future.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 29, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Abhishek Kumar
·
Jul 28, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
We thank you for your submission to PeerJ about the genome sequencing of a wolbachia strain from Drosophila recens. I give you great credit for this MS, however, you will need to address the issues raised by two reviewers - this will add value to this MS.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 25, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper by Metcalf et al report the genome sequencing of a wolbachia strain from Drosophila recens. The wRec genome shows a reduction of the prophage WO elements but not the lack of WO as previously postulated. The paper is well written and adhering to all basic reporting fields. However on page 4 line 6 (….including a temperate bacteriophage named WO (Kent and Bordenstein, 2010, Metcalf and Bordenstein, 2012) the authors should cite the first paper reporting the bacteriophage WO in wolbachia (Masui et al (2000). J Mol Evol, 51:491–497) other than citing their reviews.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
In the phylogenetic analysis the authors concatenated the MSLT genes and applied a model of substitution calculated on the genes as one. Since mrbayes allows to infer phylogenies on partitioned data sets in which each partition has its own model of substitution the authors should repeat the phylogenetic analysis calculating the best fit model for each genes and include these in mrbayes. The authors filtered the sequence reads for wolbachia sequences from different strains but they do not mention how they performed this filtering and which parameters they have used.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I have no comment on the finding of the paper but I have a main comment on the interpretation of some of the finding. The authors have found four genes with a ratio of non-synonymous vs synonymous substitutions higher than one, interpreted as positive selection acting on these genes and that positive selection was acting on the wRec genes . While I do not disagreed on the positive selection acting on these genes I do not think the authors can say anything about on which lineage there is positive selection because they have compared just two wolbachia genomes. The authors should have taken in consideration these genes for more wolbachia strains and applied a likelihood ratio test. Test which would have allow them to see in which phylogenetic lineages there has been a significant w >1. Finally in the results on page 9 and 10 line 23 and 1: …..with wRec having lost ….. as well as the entirety of the “Octomom” region. This phrase assume that both WO and Octomom has been lost on wRec but in the discussion the authors says that Octomom have more likely been acquired by wMel and not lost by wRec. I would rephrase this avoiding to reach conclusion about who gain and who lost in the results.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Recent genome reduction of Wolbachia in Drosophila recens targets phage WO and narrows candidates for reproductive parasitism (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.529v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
crystal frost ·
Jul 28, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
A slight divergence from the standard layout in that the results and discussion are separate but I feel that this enhances the clarity of the manuscript. My only suggested change is to add an 'of' into line 9 of page 12, so that this sentence reads - "due to a hitchhiking in association with a series OF positive selection events in its resident Wolbachia"
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
A very well written and executed study. The discussion is very thorough and well reasoned. Overall, I really enjoyed reading this manuscript. Cite this review as
frost cL ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Recent genome reduction of Wolbachia in Drosophila recens targets phage WO and narrows candidates for reproductive parasitism (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.529v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 11, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
