Review History for Coral responses to a repeat bleaching event in Mayotte in 2010 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Coral responses to a repeat bleaching event in Mayotte in 2010 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 28th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 20th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on July 2nd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 3rd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Anastazia Banaszak
·
Jul 3, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am satisfied with the modifications made to the manuscript and the justifications for any changes suggested by the reviewers that were not made. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by James Reimer, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 2, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Anastazia Banaszak
·
May 20, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Three expert reviewers have evaluated your manuscript and their comments and an annotated PDF have been made available. I am aware that there is a potential conflict of interest with one of the reviewers and I have taken this into account in making my decision. All 3 evaluations are consistent and the reviewers have supplied thoughtful and constructive reviews. All suggest minor revisions. I agree with this assessment and encourage you to take into account their comments and suggestions in preparing a new version of the manuscript.
label_author_1
C. Mark Eakin ·
Apr 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Minor editing and modification of figures needed as detailed in annotated pdf of manuscript. Paper largely clear and well-written. Figures are relevant and well designed but in need of a few edits.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The design of the data collection and analysis meet standards of this research community. Analyses and conclusions drawn from them are mostly appropriate, although one analysis (with and without unaffected) should be removed as no justification is given for why unaffected values should ever be excluded from the analyses.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data, analyses, and findings are robust and sound except as mentioned above.
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Eakin CM ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Coral responses to a repeat bleaching event in Mayotte in 2010 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5305v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Lisa Rodrigues ·
May 6, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a well-written and analyzed assessment of a 2010 bleaching event in Mayotte. The writing is clear and there is sufficient reference to supporting and relevant literature in the field that places this study in the context of others. Similarly, the authors have indicated the contribution that their findings making to the gaps in the literature. The authors report on the statistics of the bleaching event from a wide array of transect and quadrat data and report their findings in terms of both genera and area of the reef. I think the most significant impact of this study is their use of cluster analysis (fig 7c) to assess the changing outcomes when unaffected colonies are/are not included and when weighted components are included. This was a really interesting and useful outcome of the data presented, particularly in terms of application to other reef locations affected by bleaching around the world. I recommend that these findings be incorporated into the abstract in a more definitive way. This part of the study seems to be "undersold" to me and could be incorported more thoroughly.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The overall design and explanation of the study is complete and easy to follow and understand. The statistics used are appropriate. The study fulfills a gap in knowledge related to reporting and assessment of bleaching events and the susceptibility of genera in the event. An assessment of a past bleaching event (2010) is especially timely as we (quickly) approach greater frequency of these events.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors follow the standards of Peer J in terms of a robust data set that has been statistically analyzed and assessed. The authors do not indicate the impact or novelty of their results, nor do they overly speculate on their findings, however, their conclusions are well stated and associated with their overall research question. My only suggestions relate to making their figures slightly more clear, as follows: Fig. 2 - A key is needed for the different reef areas depicted in the map. What do the "P" on the map refer to? What do the "!" in green on the map refer to? Fig. 4 - I recommend removing the lines connecting panels a and b. I do not think they are particularly helpful. Fig. 5a - Define abbreviation in the legend - perhaps refer to Fig. 3 where complete wording on the legend is provided. Fig. 5b - Define and/or standardize the abbreviations used on the ternary diagram. For example what is "fat" - perhaps for simplicity, use first three letters of each genera? I do not believe there would be an duplicates. Fig. 6a - slightly shift the legend for "numbers" so it does not overlap with the graph FIg. 6b - Define abbreviation in the legend - perhaps refer to Fig. 3 where complete wording on the legend is provided. Fig. 7b, d-g - Perhaps show on the same y-axis scale for easier comparison? Fig. 7c - Can the authors make this panel larger? It is difficult to read and is a bit blurry.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I have the following suggested edits to the overall text: Line 67: change "through have a" to "because of its" Line 80: change "followed" to "following" Line 97: change "from" to "on" Lines 112-113: change to read - "...with 25-m transects (Table 1). The smallest sampling was a 7-m belt transect and 2 m2 quadrats..." Line 114: change to read - "... samples of 11 small and 86 large corals were recorded within a 25-m..." Lines 119 and 121: delete open and close parentheses "()" Line 137: correct type to read "monitoring" Line 140: Change to read "...and second, the effect..." Line 143: I'm not sure what was meant by "analyses were trialled"? Line 156: Add hypen to "Thirty-four" Line 182: Delete typo after "following" Line 197: Delete "to" Cite this review as
Rodrigues L ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Coral responses to a repeat bleaching event in Mayotte in 2010 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5305v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Raphael Ritson-Williams ·
May 17, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Overall the authors did an excellent job of writing clearly and reporting the work that they conducted. I thought the figures were very clear and easy to interpret.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The design of these experiments are good. The authors fully explained their design and the context of their results.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
These results are interesting. While bleaching at Mayotte in 2010 has already been documented, I think that the addition of the size class data is novel and an important aspect of bleaching that is under reported. I also hesitate to predict mortality, however the authors have done a good job of putting that analysis into context and provided adequate explanation of the methods of their estimation.
Comments for the author
Overall I found this to be an interesting paper. The surveys were conducted well and were done extensively for this island. The bleaching event was put into appropriate context both across time at Moyotte, and in the context of the recent global bleaching events. Here are a few specific comments of typos or unclear writing for the authors: Abstract Line 35-37. This sentence is unclear. Rewrite for clarity. Introduction Line 43. No need for a comma here Line 55. Insert “of the” into this sentence. It should read “…, with most of the world regions predicted..” Line 67. Replace “through having” with “since it has” Results Line 182. There is an extra f at the end of following Discussion Line 241. When you say “This paper”, it is not clear if you mean your manuscript or the paper that you describe just before this sentence. Edit for clarity. Line 350. Delete “the”, you have two of them in this sentence Conclusions Line 373. Remove “and” from this sentence. Cite this review as
Ritson-Williams R ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Coral responses to a repeat bleaching event in Mayotte in 2010 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5305v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 28, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
