Review History for Particulate matter collection by honey bees (Apis mellifera, L.) near to a cement factory in Italy [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Particulate matter collection by honey bees ( Apis mellifera , L.) near to a cement factory in Italy To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 16th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 5th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on June 3rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on June 12th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 5th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Bruno Marino
·
Jul 5, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the points raised by the reviewers throughout the review process. I have closely followed the tracked changes and find your revisions to be in order. Your manuscript is accepted for publication in PeerJ. I note the following improvements and comments: 1. Language has been revised for improved readability. Word choice has been revised according to reviewer suggestions noted in the pdf of reviewer 2. 2. The introduction has been revised to include text regarding the use of honeybees as bioindicators. 3. Some things in the text should be better defined. For example: “Several studies also provide evidence that there is a positive correlation between weight and non- exhaust emissions, even suggesting that the use of electric vehicles may emit comparable level of PM as conventional vehicles because of their relatively high weight (reviewed in Timmers and Achten, 2016).” Here it should be pointed out that weight refers to the weight of the car. The clarification has been made in the revised text. 4. In the section 3.2 Environmental impact of PM the authors say little that is in accordance with the title of this section. Instead this section mainly has suggestions to the plant management on how to reduce the spreading of PM. Although this is very useful and should remain a part of this paper it should not be in the section with the above title. This section has been amended and the overall length shortened considerably. 5. The manuscript has been re-worded, specifically in the conclusion section, to emphasize that replication represents a gap in the study and is not the focus of the study. However, the research done proves that honeybees in combination with the method applied can be used for long term monitoring of the pollution in the region. This greatly improves the knowledge of the scientific community on the use of honeybees as samplers of PM and highlights the improvements needed to demonstrate replication of the initial findings. 6. “Measurements were carried out on particles present in distinctive areas on the insect wings and head, chosen as standard areas. Specifically, 4 areas of the wings and 1 area of the head wide 450 x 450 µm have been considered (Figure 2).” It would be useful to include an explanation why where those 4 areas of the wing chosen as standard areas. An explanation has been added addressing this point and a comparison of the levels of contamination has been include in supplementary figure 1. 7. The number of figures has been reduced from 16 to 15. Supplemental files consisting of four figures are informative. All of the figures of are of high quality and provide visual information on the diverse contamination found in the study. Whereas replication lacks, the strength of this study is in detailed illustration of in situ contaminant particles on the bee anatomy clearly establishing the approach as a unique environmental biosensor. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Nigel Andrew, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 12, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Bruno Marino
·
Jun 7, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The primary objection of reviewer two that replication is lacking (n = 10, 2 sites, single time point) has been addressed along with the other points of both reviewers. I infer from revisions that no additional bee sampling is possible for this manuscript. Despite lack of replication this work is well done and should be published by PeerJ. Emphasis on the uniqueness of the bee sampling system relative to other stationary methods should be emphasized in the discussion. For example, are bees integrated collectors for increased variety and chemical species of PM? Are bees more efficient and effective than other PM samplers. Is cost a factor--bees are a product of nature and essentially free. The case that bees are of high value for PM collection is well made and should be expanded with follow on work. Replication across seasons and other sites by diverse researchers across urban areas is readily applicable.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 3, 2018
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Bruno Marino
·
Feb 5, 2018
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The manuscript establishes a very promising approach to the use of bees as samplers of particulate matter in the environment. However, the lack of replication is insufficient to test the validity of your method. Additional data are required for a favorable decision to publish.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 19, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Language needs to be thoroughly revised. I could follow the text but with great difficulty. The introduction section nicely explains PM, its origin in the cement factory and its possible adverse health effects. However, considering that in this paper honeybees are used as samplers of PM it would be good to have a few sentences about the use of honeybees as bioindicators. Some things in the text should be better defined. For example: “Several studies also provide evidence that there is a positive correlation between weight and non- exhaust emissions, even suggesting that the use of electric vehicles may emit comparable level of PM as conventional vehicles because of their relatively high weight (reviewed in Timmers and Achten, 2016).” Here it should be pointed out that weight refers to the weight of the car. In the section 3.2 Environmental impact of PM the authors say little that is in accordance with the title of this section. Instead this section mainly has suggestions to the plant management on how to reduce the spreading of PM. Although this is very useful and should remain a part of this paper it should not be in the section with the above title.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
My biggest concern about the design of the experiment is that the bees were sampled only once. It would have been more useful to know if there were any changes in PM collected by bees depending on different months or seasons. However, the research done proves that honeybees in combination with the method applied can be used for long term monitoring of the pollution in the region. This greatly improves the knowledge of the scientific community on the use of honeybees as samplers of PM. Specific comments: “Measurements were carried out on particles present in distinctive areas on the insect wings and head, chosen as standard areas. Specifically, 4 areas of the wings and 1 area of the head wide 450 x 450 µm have been considered (Figure 2).” It would be useful to include an explanation why where those 4 areas of the wing chosen as standard areas.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusions are too general. The authors should focus in short on the findings presented in the paper, and then go on to general remarks.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Particulate matter collection by honey bees (Apis mellifera, L.) near to a cement factory in Italy (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5322v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 29, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is presented in reasonably good scientific English. However, there are cases where word choice seems strange to me. I have attempted to highlight problematic areas and make language suggestions in the attached pdf. The introduction provides sufficient background on the use of honey bees as environmental samplers as well as some background on the process of making cement. The intro is informative without being overly long. There are too many figures and, while reference in the manuscript is made to “supplemental materials”, it is not clear which of the figures are destined for “Supplemental”. The figures themselves, however, are high quality and add to the manuscript -- there are just too many of them. I would really have liked to have seen example images that could help me understand what the 4 different levels of particulate contamination look like.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question, whether bees can be used as bioindicators for particulate matter, is an interesting and important question that the manuscript does a fair job of beginning to address. The most serious criticism I have of this paper is that results came from 10 bees collected from 2 sites (5 per site) at a single time point. While the work appears to be performed to a high technical standard with the use of SEM/EDX, this is simply not enough replication to allow for generalizable conclusions to be drawn. As a proof-of-concept paper I think this would be valid, but more replication across time is needed to demonstrate that the observed patterns hold up to replication. The methods are, for the most part, well described and should make it possible for the study to be replicated. I was a bit confused about which parts of the bee were studied from the description in the text (which should be reworded), but Fig. 2 makes it clear what was being studied.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Given the low level of replication, the only statistics it is possible to do were the comparison of contamination levels between bees and between sites. It could be argued that using individual bees in the site comparison is pseudoreplication and multiple samplings at different time points should really be used. The discussion is overly long and should be reduced. Given that the statistical inference is preliminary, given the low level of replication, the discussion delves into the more anecdotal nature of the results. While some discussion of this nature is welcome, particularly as it relates to possible emissions from the cement plant and roadways, I found it to be overly long.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Particulate matter collection by honey bees (Apis mellifera, L.) near to a cement factory in Italy (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5322v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 16, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
