Review History for Multilocus molecular systematics of the circumtropical reef-fish genus Abudefduf (Pomacentridae): history, geography and ecology of speciation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Multilocus molecular systematics of the circumtropical reef-fish genus Abudefduf (Pomacentridae): history, geography and ecology of speciation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 9th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 28th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on June 23rd, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 11th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tomas Hrbek
·
Jul 11, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Authors, I have received one review and also evaluated your MS myself. Same as the reviewer, I feel that you have addressed previous concerns and produced an overall stronger manuscript, thus I am happy to accept the MS in its present form. Congratulations on a job well done. Sincerely, Tomas Hrbek # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by David Roberts, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Emanuell Ribeiro ·
Jul 8, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors have substantially improved their contribution and have addressed all reviewers' comments. I would recommend this manuscript to publication with no further consideration.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors have addressed all reviewers' comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors have addressed all reviewers' comments
Cite this review as
Ribeiro E ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Multilocus molecular systematics of the circumtropical reef-fish genus Abudefduf (Pomacentridae): history, geography and ecology of speciation (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5357v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 23, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tomas Hrbek
·
Mar 28, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Authors, I have received two reviews now. I agree with the reviewers that your article is interesting, however, there are a number of things that need to be addressed. 1. The discussion is very long and not focused, digressing to topics that are not the focus of this study. So please condense the discussion and focus. 2. L519-552: I find this section a bit out of context, and I am not sure what is the real objective of this discussion. 3. Local endemisms: L554-628. I find this section to be highly speculative. While I do not disagree that differences in color of small isolated or peripheral populations may contribute to driving or accelerating speciation, lack of color differentiation does not imply retardation of speciation. The benthic Abudefduf have apparently very limited ecological opportunities due to competition with benthic-feeding stegastine damselfishes, thus will have fewer species that fill fewer niches, and current levels of geneflow are sufficient to prevent neutral divergence of geographically distant populations. Second, while I realize the benthic habitats are not very deep, the range of visible light at greater depths will be smaller, which will limit the range of colors that potentially are under sexual selection. Finally as you acknowledged, part of this disparity may be just due to sampling, and particularly sampling of geographically broadly distributed species of clades A and B that may harbor deeply divergent lineages. 4. The last section (L630-690) “Strengths and Limits of this Study and Future Directions” essentially says that UCEs are useful for both recent and old divergences, but more useful for older divergences and that they are better than RAD data since UCEs can be combined across analyses. First the objective of this study was not to evaluate the utility of UCEs to resolve phylogenetic relationships at different temporal scales. This has been done, and these studies are cited. Second you state that UCEs are superior to RAD data since UCEs are combinable across studies while RADs are not, citing Andrews et al. (2016). This plainly is not true, and Andrews et al. (2016) do not state this. UCEs are combinable as long as the same probe set, hybridization protocol and sequencing (length) protocol is used. RADs are combinable as long as the same restriction enzymes and sequencing (length) protocol is used. But clearly there are issues in generating compatible datasets with both types of markers. 5. Please address the issues brought up by both reviewers with respect to planctivory driving speciation (related to point 3 above) 6. On all figures indicate from which coast of Panama, Costa Rica, Colombia, i.e. all countries that have both Pacific and Atlantic coastlines do the samples come from. South Africa, I believe is only western Indian Ocean. 7. I would appreciate if you added DOIs to your references. Minor issues: 1. L241-245: What happened to A. whitley? It is the sister taxon of A. cf. vaigiensis. Once you address the above points and those of the referees, I believe you will have a fine paper. I look forward to your revision. Sincerely, Tomas Hrbek
label_author_2
Emanuell Ribeiro ·
Mar 21, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript examines Abudefduf, a pantropical genus of damselfishes and important component of virtually all coral reefs and tropical rocky shore fish assemblages. The authors estimate a new phylogenetic hypothesis and a time-calibrated molecular phylogeny for the group based on a large dataset of genome-wide data (UCEs) and complete taxonomic sampling. The authors also use this new phylogenetic framework to explore hypothesis regarding how biogeographical, historical and ecological factors affected diversification among Abudefduf major lineages. The phylogenetic results are robust and specially interesting, as the inferences here are made based in an independent dataset from that used for previous molecular studies of the evolution of pomacentrids. 1- In general, the manuscript is well written and uses a technically correct English. However, there are few structure issues. For instance, the introductory paragraph is too long and somewhat confusing. Presenting previous phylogenetic hypothesis along with biogeographical, behavioral, morphological, and feeding ecology information does not seem ideal. I would suggest splitting long paragraphs in shorter text components dealing with particular points. 2- Additionally, I strongly recommend adding a figure comparing the most relevant competing phylogenetic hypothesis to date, the figure can also summarize layers of additional ecological and biogeographical information. This would make easier to understand conflicting and congruent ideas.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
3- I thank the authors for providing sequence data, however I suggest the authors to also add RAxML and Beast tree files to the supplementary data. 4- Fossil calibration scheme is poorly detailed. I suggest indicating the used calibration points in the time-calibrated tree figure. Information about constrained node ages' priors, including lower and upper bounds, are missing. Additionally, there are no fossil placement justifications. If the authors used clade ages recovered by Santini (BMC, 2009) as secondary calibrations, it should be specified in the main text.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
5- Habitat shifts have been discussed as a source of ecological release and subsequent diversification in several groups of both fresh water and marine fishes. Here, the authors extensively relied in this general pattern as an explanation to the asymmetric distribution of species richness in Abudefduf. Although sister-clade comparisons suggest that the adoption of planktivory have promoted differential accumulation of species between Clade C and the other two Abudefduf major lineages, it is concerning that there is no clear testing of hypotheses. It is understandable that the small sample size (number of tips) reduces the possibilities of approaching the problem in a hypothesis testing framework, however it also limits possible explanations to plausibility. While speculation is welcome, it should be identified as such. 6- Is Clade C exceptionally diverse? The authors addressed this question using an exploratory approach—BAMM. BAMM is a popular macroevolutionary tool that estimate rates of diversification and infers shifts in diversification-regimes across clades in a phylogenetic tree. Moore et al (PNAS, 2016) have raised important concerns about critical errors in BAMM's the implementation and likelihood function. I was surprised to not see this study mentioned here. 7- Even assuming that there are no issues in BAMM's implementation, the presented results do not support a significant shift in diversification rates in the branch leading to Clade C. The authors argue that the lack of support reflects low statistical power of the test due to small sample sizes. Based in the non-parametric sister-clade comparisons, I suspect that authors' conclusions are generally correct. However, the conclusions are again based only on plausibility and I strongly recommend the authors not to reject a null hypothesis that the observed differences in the number of species in clades of equal age could arise from random variation in speciation/extinction rates. 8- The cause-and-effect relationship between the evolution of planktivory and asymmetric distribution of species richness in Abudefduf is also problematic due to the lack of evolutionary repetition (see de Queiroz, Syst. Biol., 2002). In Abudefduf, planktivory has apparently evolved once (twice, if you consider the recently diverging Abudefduf notatus) and although it might be a recurrent pattern in Pomacentridae, the lack of repetition limits inferences regarding the role of planktivory in spurring taxonomic diversification at genus level.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In general, I find the questions asked here and the results presented fully suitable for PeerJ. I hope you find the comments useful. Cite this review as
Ribeiro E ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Multilocus molecular systematics of the circumtropical reef-fish genus Abudefduf (Pomacentridae): history, geography and ecology of speciation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5357v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 27, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This report covers a lot of ground, from speciation mechanisms and diversification rates to cyptic species and biogeography. For the most part it is clearly written and adheres to scientific standards of economy (a few exceptions indicated below) but is still a long read. The Discussion could be trimmed without loss of information or interpretation.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
This is a robust study design with all 19 known Abudefduf species, and multiple sampling across the range of widespread species. Most phylogenetic inferences are based on 100+ loci, providing the nearly definitive statement on sergeant-major relationships. Overall study design is excellent.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Findings are robust and very well documented with extensive supplemental materials. One minor point is that starting at 249, ages are presented to two decimal points, which implies much greater precision than is actually available. I recommend rounding to nearest MY.
Comments for the author
The Discussion section on local endemics (554 – 628) is interesting but speculative and hangs on a thin premise: Half of planktivores are local endemics, but only a third of benthivores are local endemics. Is that a real difference? I think so, but recommend that this section be trimmed. 618 – 626 Another case of early speciation – coloration divergence was recently published: Whitney et al. 2018. 652: Hobbs & Allen is appropriate to back this statement about hybridization. MINOR POINTS Typos: 33, 230, 447, 534, 653, 744, 750, 765, 799, 801, 820, 825, 831, 857, 872, 918, 921, 922, 956, 963, 971 167-168 Some software uses the word ‘version’ and some don’t. Either way, please be consistent. 202 Be consistent in format for describing sample size. 344 Delete ‘should be considered to be’. 365-366 Not sure what this sentence means. Please reword for clarity. 391-392 Please reword. 522 ‘Speciation’ echo. Please reword. 540 Maybe use ‘phylogenetic’ instead of ‘geographic’ here, because this passage is comparing two studies, one population genetics, and the present study which lacks the sample sizes to evaluate population structure. 574 “Fish’ should be ‘fishes’. Figure 1 caption. Indicate what that light color for the A. cf. vaigiensis Kiritimati lineage represents Range maps – Should these be listed as supplementary figures? Potentially useful references: Hobbs J-PA, Allen GR. 2014. Hybridization among coral reef fishes at Christmas Island and Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Raffles Bulletin of Zoology S30:220 – 226. Whitney JL, Bowen BW, Karl SA 2018. Flickers of speciation: sympatric color morphs of the Arc-eye Hawkfish, Paracirrhites arcatus, Molecular Ecology Online Early Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Multilocus molecular systematics of the circumtropical reef-fish genus Abudefduf (Pomacentridae): history, geography and ecology of speciation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5357v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 9, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
