Review History for Sexually transmitted infections in HIV-infected people in Switzerland: cross-sectional study [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Sexually transmitted infections in HIV-infected people in Switzerland: cross-sectional study To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 3rd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 31st, 2014. The first revision was submitted on August 1st, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 4th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Barbara Ensoli
·
Aug 4, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised manuscript is accepted without any further comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 1, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Barbara Ensoli
·
Jul 31, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The work is clearly presented and written, there are only minor revisions, which should be addressed by the authors.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 14, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript by Sprenger et al describes a study to estimate Sexually-Transmitted Infections (STI) prevalence and sexual health care seeking behavior in HIV-infected people attending the Bern University Hospital. Tested people were males having sex with males (MSM), heterosexual men and women. STI were more common in MSM when compared to heterosexual men and women. Differently from heterosexual men and women, most of MSM agreed that STI testing should be offered routinely (one time/year). Authors conclude that a regular assessment of sexual health in HIV-infected people, including STI and a picture of sexual history, would allow a better control of STI spreading, treatment and partner management within the population of HIV-infected individuals. The work is clearly presented and written, however, to my opinion, the Introduction section is too long and sometimes not framed within the themes that are presented in the work. It would be advisable to shorten it , possibly focusing on aspects of the background that correlate with the objectives of the study.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is correct. Authors also describe – and comment within the Discussion section – the possible few weak points of the study methods including the fact that fewer patients than planned were eligible for the study, compared to the initial planned number. However, numbers of participants are enough for providing clear results and are also in line with number reported in other studies.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Results are presented in a clear and scientific correct way and are statistically controlled. The study is essentially descriptive and interpretation of the results is, therefore, in some way already addressed on an objective direction. Rather, conclusions correctly focus more on implication for routine STI testing among HIV-infected people.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Sexually transmitted infections in HIV-infected people in Switzerland: cross-sectional study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.537v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 24, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Sprenger et al describe a study to estimate Sexually-Transmitted Infections (STI) prevalence and sexual health care seeking behavior in HIV-infected people (MSM, heterosexual men and women) attending the Bern University Hospital. MSM agreed that STI testing should be offered routinely differently from heterosexual men and women. Authors suggest that a regular assessment of sexual health in HIV-infected people would consent a control of STI spreading.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The work is clearly presented and written. Authors describe the possible weak points of the study methods but the experimental design is correct and the numbers of participants are enough for providing clear results.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Results are statistically controled. Authors explain results in a scientific way. The study is descriptive and conclusions correctly focus more on implication for routine STI testing among HIV-infected people.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Sexually transmitted infections in HIV-infected people in Switzerland: cross-sectional study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.537v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 3, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
