Review History for Assessing the capability of Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy in tandem with chemometric analysis for predicting poultry meat spoilage [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Assessing the capability of Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy in tandem with chemometric analysis for predicting poultry meat spoilage To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 2nd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 25th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on June 3rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on July 4th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 16th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Matt Sponheimer
·
Jul 16, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The English language is still in less than stellar shape. That said, a good faith effort has been made so I'm inclined to accept at this point. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 4, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Matt Sponheimer
·
Jun 24, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript is improved. There are still lots of small, and not so small, language issues, and the referencing continues to be too light. If you email I can send a few more specific suggestions as a track changes word document.
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 3, 2018
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Matt Sponheimer
·
Apr 25, 2018
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The basic idea here is very good. Infrared spectroscopy shows great promise for characterizing food spoilage quickly and easily. However, as can be seen in the reviewer comments, there is much room for improvement in the manuscript. Please take all of the reviewer comments very seriously in your revision. Furthermore, there is a need for more methodological detail and better referencing throughout the manuscript. You can use papers like "Rapid monitoring of the spoilage of minced beef stored under conventionally and active packaging conditions using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy in tandem with chemometrics" from Meat Science as a model. Make certain your statistics are appropriate. For instance, should you be using a repeated measures ANOVA? I would also strongly suggest doing a plot of predicted versus reference bacterial account, as is typical for chemometric analyses, as it really is the bottom line. You want to see if you can predict food spoilage using FTIR, so it is such a plot that will be of central concern to readers. Lastly, make certain you are specific as to how you cross-validated your model. I am also worried that your baseline corrections may not have worked given your figure with the spectra. Please double check that (and see the comparable figure from the paper above).
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 21, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
- English is ok - Extremely poor sue of literature and very weak knowledge of the background is provided - this is ok - yes but this is not the problem
Experimental design
label_ed_1
- this is ok - can be considered as such - limited - this is ok
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
- The experimental design is weak (single T, and single analysis was performed) and thus not solid conclusion can be drawn. In this field numerous of studies have been published with a greater amount of data; thus the limited data that have been used within this study do not allow to support the conclusions reported in this article. The analysis (PCA,PLS) have been performed with inadequate number of samples; this is in my opinion a main concern regarding the impact of this study In other words this study can be considered as VERY preliminary and more data are needed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Further experimental work is needed before this study can be considered as solid. The limited number of samples examined are not enough (4 points for microbiological analysis and 4 points for FTIR). The absent of any information regarding those microorganisms that are the main spoilers (pseudomonads) are also a weak point. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Assessing the capability of Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy in tandem with chemometric analysis for predicting poultry meat spoilage (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5376v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 25, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Suggestion to rewrite the abstract considering the following: The abstract structure includes copies of same text in both methods and results without distinction between the two sections. Line 29: what were the statistics for this significance and what is the direction and strength of correlation Lines 30-31: PCA does not measure strength of models Line 31: add prediction stats and avoid the subjective "good predictions" results relating Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and traditional methods are not presented in the abstract Introduction The objectives of the study are not clear. The authors quote a similar study by Ammor et al. (2009) exploiting FTIR spectroscopy 55 along with chemometric analysis for non-destructive prediction of meat spoilage. Does this study aim to repeat these findings but using other spoilage measures?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
What was the sample size? was there replications of the experiments? What is the citation for Halal Ethical Guidelines? Are these standard scientific protocols? Lines 75-76: which media and which incubation conditions- what morphology and typical colony types categories? Lines 96-97: it is not cleae if PCA or is it discriminant analysis is used.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Lines 134-136: value of FTIR spectra from isolated pure cultures of different members of Enterobacteriaceae is not clear as isolated cultures would not show differences in meat quality Lines 141-148: the principal components have not been clearly explained and what is implied by the various groupings of the variables Lines 200-205: it is not clear from PCA results how these findings are supported by this research and these may not be valid findings from the results unless this is made clear. What is the sensitivity and specificity of this new approach.
Comments for the author
Line 75: change "Total plate counts (TPC) Enterobacteriaceae" to "Total plate counts (TPC) and Enterobacteriaceae" Line 100: Is this Partial least squares regression? Should be written in full at place of first mention Lines 174-179: these do not really imply new findings as it is quiet general knowledge that bacteria multiply in foods such as meat over time Line 216: do the authors mean "promoting" rather than "glorifying"? use different choice of wording. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Assessing the capability of Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy in tandem with chemometric analysis for predicting poultry meat spoilage (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5376v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 2, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
