Review History for Quantifying inter-group variability in lactation curve shape and magnitude with the MilkBot® lactation model [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Quantifying inter-group variability in lactation curve shape and magnitude with the MilkBot ® lactation model To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 22nd, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 27th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on March 1st, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 1st, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Mar 1, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Therefore, you definitely did a very good job in answering critical points. Thank you again for the excellent submission. I hope that you will consider PeerJ for your future manuscripts.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 1, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Feb 27, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please pay close attention to the comments of reviewer #1 who made several deficiencies in your manuscript.
label_author_1
Robert Van Saun ·
Feb 23, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript is well-written and conforms to journal format guidelines. The information presented is highly technical, but the author has done a good job in describing the information. All references are appropriately cited within the text and the citations are through relative to the scope of this topic in the literature. Unfortunately there is a flaw to the manuscript in that the author never provides an objective statement for the reader to appreciate what is to be undertaken in the study. It is uncertain if the author is attempting to validate his mathematical model with data, or describe the methodology by which he determined this model. The model has been previously used to assess its ability to discern critical assessment of lactational performance of cows relative to other models or standard Dairy Herd Improvement record metrics. How does this manuscript differ from the two previous publications in which the author collaborated? There are other issues within the manuscript that do detract from the clarity of the text for the reader. A number of equations are provided by the author; however, the defined number for equations is repeated within the text. Each equation should have an independent number for clarity. Duplication of the equation as in line 214 is not necessary. Additionally, parameters within the equation presented should have individual terms defined. Equation 2 within the Methods section is not cited within the text. Variables used in equations are not defined until the Results section, which again brings some uncertainty as to the study objectives. Legends for the figures require additional information for the reader to understand the abbreviations used. Figure legends should stand on their own and not require the reader to refer back to the text to understand.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Without an objective statement being provided it is difficult to assess the study design. If the intent of the study was to use the data to define parameters for the MilkBot model, the discussion is reasonably appropriate. However, if the intent of the study was to show herd differences or applicability of the MilkBot model, then the results are somewhat flawed. The description of the experimental data defines two parity groups, which suggests the author has already determined that there are no differences between parity 2 and 3 or greater in the model's parameters, unlike what is calculated in DHIA data. This is fine, but the author should show statistical assessment to validate this assessment. Also, in reviewing all the herd data, why was there no statistical assessment of model parameters relative to herd contribution to variation. It would seem that herd and parity would be two model main effects that could be tested relative to influence on a, b, c, and d parameters. In contrast, the author just describes such differences.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
There is no statistical methods used in the study to verify study findings. The study was not truly testing any hypothesis, but describing a methodology for assessing lactational performance. As a result, most of the discussion is speculation by the author on how the model is describing differences in production curves. Overall validity of findings is obscured due to the lack of defined direction for the study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Deficiencies noted with the manuscript can easily be corrected by providing an objective statement for the study and then basing descriptions of methods on this stated hypothesis. Statistical analysis of the different model parameters (table 2) by parity and herd could easily address some of concerns raised if the objective was to describe a new mathematical model to assess lactational performance in cows. Cite this review as
Van Saun R ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Quantifying inter-group variability in lactation curve shape and magnitude with the MilkBot® lactation model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.54v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 20, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a very interesting study on quantifying lactation curve shape and magnitude with MilkBot lactation model. Dr. Ehrlich presents that the MilkBot model has been shown both to predict future milk production in individual lactations with good accuracy and to be capable of quantifying what appear to be biologically and economically significant differences in lactation curve shape between groups of animals. This is a big progress to quantify shape, magnitude, and consistency of lactations in a repeatable manner. I would like to recommend it for publication as is. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Quantifying inter-group variability in lactation curve shape and magnitude with the MilkBot® lactation model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.54v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 22, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
