Review History for Economic value of trees in the estate of the Harewood House stately home in the United Kingdom [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Economic value of trees in the estate of the Harewood House stately home in the United Kingdom To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 6th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 8th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on July 3rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 30th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Maurizio Mencuccini
·
Jul 30, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors, I am happy with the changes implemented following the first round of reviews. Both reviews have highlighted the significance of the paper for current discussions on this theme. One of the reviewers recommended major changes, however having reviewed your manuscript, I am happy to recommend acceptance based on your current submission, as most of the requested changes were of a typographical nature. I am now happy that the quality of both your tables and figures has now improved and brought to publication level. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Dezene Huber, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 3, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Maurizio Mencuccini
·
May 8, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Author, I am marking this editorial decision as Major Revision following one of the reviewers. I suggest you take the opportunity to thoroughly check the calculations and presentation of your data to avoid some of the mistakes spotted by one of the reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
English used throughout the manuscript is clear, unambiguous and professional allowing easy and smooth reading. Introduction shows context and understanding of the topic and leads logically to the aims of this manuscript. Literature used is relevant and covers the topic broadly. Precision of referencing is, however, poor. Already in the first section of the introduction, there are three mistakes: L 50 Hunhammer should be Hunhammar, L 54 Nowak is listed as Norwak and Luttik 2010 is listed as Luttik 2000 in the reference list. There are further referencing mistakes throughout the manuscript. The authors should thoroughly check the references. Figures attached to the current file are of poor quality. Species names on Figure 1 are almost impossible to read. Caption of Figure 3 does not match to what is actually presented. Furthermore, there is a general problem with differences between the data and results presented in the text and on the figures/tables. For example, Table 3: Whittaker’s Beta W reported 0.33 in Table 1 and 0.4 on line 130; about 35% of relative abundance of Quercus robur on Figure 1, more than 50% on line 133 etc. The general structure of the manuscript follows the PeerJ standards, with raw data supplied in a readable and understandable format.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The aims of the study are well defined, relevant and meaningful. It is stated how the current manuscript will fills an identified knowledge gap. Although the manuscript is focused on one single estate in United Kingdom, the results are discussed in much broader context, making it interesting for wide variety of readers. Methods used in this paper could be described with bit more detail. For example, the measured light exposure of the trees is only explained in the result section on line 150. Although I understand that the iTrees software methods have been described elsewhere, it would be helpful to have some basic principles explained in the current manuscript as well. That would save the reader from having to scan through long reports or download user-manuals to get an idea of the methods used in the software.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data collected for this manuscript is robust and statistically sound. However, discrepancies between the figures/tables and text raise some concerns. Results in the text do seem to match the raw data supplied. The conclusions are linked to the original aims, limited to the results, yet discussed in a broader context
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
L 145 - 154: Something has happened there, as the same results are presented three times. Please edit this section. Also section Ecosystem services (L 162 - 171) is bit difficult to read. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Economic value of trees in the estate of the Harewood House stately home in the United Kingdom (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5411v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Marketa Santruckova ·
May 2, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is written by professional English. The paper as well as literature references deal mainly with Anglo-Saxon context. I suggest use more papers mainly from Germany (e.g. research of I. Kowarik and his team). The paper has professional and clear structure. Figures and tables are relevant. Fig.1: The hight of columns does not correspond with information in text (lines 132 - 140). Fig. 3: I suggest omit the column with London data that are not gained by authors´ own research. The caption of axis x should show the DBH interval in each columns.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The topic of the paper fits to scope of the journal. The presented paper is a case study based on detailed enhancement of gardens in one estate. It is relevant for introduction of methodology how economic values of ecosystem services provided by gardens could be measured. Deep research of economic values of gardens should be based on more extent set of model areas.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Discussion and Conclusion are well stated and linked with research questions. However, the estimation of the value provided by trees to the estate (lines 199 - 202) should be more specified. It could be supposed that not only number of trees but also their composition (species richness, health conditions) will differ (be higher) in gardens than in common agrucultural and/or periurban landscape. How the presented estimation was made?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The paper is based on one case study, nevetheless, it brings important findings and is worth to be published. Cite this review as
Santruckova M ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Economic value of trees in the estate of the Harewood House stately home in the United Kingdom (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5411v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 6, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
