Review History for Women are underrepresented on the editorial boards of journals in environmental biology and natural resource management [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Women are underrepresented on the editorial boards of journals in environmental biology and natural resource management To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 29th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 15th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on August 5th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 5th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Christopher Lortie
·
Aug 5, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks. I would have still liked to see more of the speculation and linkages to social sciences as proposed by Dr Parker, but the manuscript is greatly improved. Thanks.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 5, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Christopher Lortie
·
Jun 15, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I think this paper is an important contribution. However, please see the comments by the referees. I think they are very useful, and I would like to see more development of the implications/explanations as well. cheers, Chris.
label_author_1
John Parker ·
Jun 8, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article recapitulates findings from other areas and disciplines with respect to the general composition differential of editorial boards - an important and worthy topic. Still, I would like to see several additions. First, it would be good to speculate just a bit about why this is an issue within the environmental sciences specifically. The authors mention a few possibilities in the intro but it would be nice to connect more concretely to what we know about gender dynamics in these fields - for instance, we know that the vast majority of citation elites in these fields are male (Parker et al. 2010, 2013), mostly because it takes time for citations to accrue and science was in the not so distant past dominated by men. So what can we expect in the future? Will these compositions become more equal as women matriculate to higher positions and become more influential? Also, how do these numbers relate to the proportion of senior women in these fields generally? Second, if possible, you might also offer a few thoughts about why the subject categories represented by these journals differ so markedly - what is driving these subfield trends? Also, if you arrange the journals by level of prestige (IF, flagship ESA, whatever) are there trends apparent across that continuum? Are there few women in these positions as we move up the journal status hierarchy? Third, it would be good to include precise percentages on your pie charts so the reader knowns exact numbers with a glance at the figure and does not have to go into the text. Finally, read and integrate some cognate work on this topic. Here I am thinking of work by Amber Budden on editorial boards and peer review decisions, work by J. Scott Long on women and social stratification in science, and work by Erin Leahey on women in the sciences.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Cite this review as
Parker J ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Women are underrepresented on the editorial boards of journals in environmental biology and natural resource management (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.542v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Frida Piper ·
Jun 14, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is well written and exposes clearly the importance of the subject. There are few sentences where I think the English grammar may be not correct, although English is not my original language and I may be wrong. I have highlighted these parts in the text. The introduction would benefit for more details about previous work. After reading it, one is not clear whether this is the first study addressing gender representation in Editorial boards of STEM disciplines. Either if it is or not the first one, it should be stated why is it necessary to know this. I know that the implicit idea of the authors may be that "to correct something we need first to know how bad it is", but that message must be clearly established. The criteria for journals selection is not clear to me. Results are clear and well presented, I liked the figures. However, I think that statistics is necessary in this study. I recommend a proportion test at least. I also wonder whether some analysis discriminating journals by impact factors or by sub discipline could be addressed. It seems interesting to know if women are similarly poorly represented in high-impact journals as in low impact ones. It would be also interesting to consider the number of undergraduate students across sub-disciplines. In agronomy, for example, the aim of gender equality can face the problem of a limited number of women available to do editorial activities. That type of limitations is less probable in disciplines like biology or medicine.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I recommend a better justification of the criteria for journal selection. I did not understand this point, as I mention in the document.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Although the differences between gender illustrated by the figures (proportions) are robust, statistics must be incorporated. There is no statistic at all in the study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Attached the authors can find many minor and also major comments on the manuscript. I think this is an interesting study, but needs to be better contextualized. I hope my comments help to achieve a strong context. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Piper F ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Women are underrepresented on the editorial boards of journals in environmental biology and natural resource management (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.542v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 29, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
