Review History for Pentoxifylline decreases post-operative intra-abdominal adhesion formation in an animal model [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Pentoxifylline decreases post-operative intra-abdominal adhesion formation in an animal model To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 2nd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 29th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on July 10th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 23rd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Stewart Walsh
·
Jul 23, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing all the comments and submitting your revised manuscript. I confirm that it is now Acceptable While you are in production, please can I ask you to make two very minor language corrections? Results, Deaths of Animals. section Lines 187 and 189 please correct the phrase 'one mice' to 'one mouse'
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 10, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Stewart Walsh
·
May 29, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers have made a number of suggestions which would improve the manuscript. The manuscript should report the precise number of mice evaluated in each arm of the study. As the reviewers point out, 70 does not divide equally into three groups. Presumably there were some intraoperative or early deaths but the details should be provided. [# PeerJ Staff Note: It is PeerJ policy that additional references suggested during the peer-review process should only be included if the authors are in agreement that they are relevant and useful #]
label_author_1
Tarik Sammour ·
Apr 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The study conduct and reporting was excellent, fulfilling all the required criteria.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design was excellent, fulfilling all the required criteria.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The main issue with this study, is the lack of correlation with general woudn healing. While adhesion reduction was demonstrated with PTX, could the same impact on fibrosis affect healing of abdominal wounds and anastomoses? Before clinical trial can be recommended this question needs to be carefully answered in animal models. This warrants specific discussion in the manuscript.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a great study, but some caution regarding wound healing effects needs to be exhibited and discussed, prior to simply recommending clinical trials. Cite this review as
Sammour T ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Pentoxifylline decreases post-operative intra-abdominal adhesion formation in an animal model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5434v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Literature searching of about of prevention of adhesion with PTX should be done again. Some studies related to the subject are given below. These references should be included in the study. 1. Durmus AS, Yildiz H, Yaman M and Simsek H. 2011. The effects of heparin and pentoxifylline on prevention of intra-abdominal adhesions in rat uterine horn models: histopathological and biochemical evaluations. Revue Med Vet 162(4): 198-203. 2. Jafari-Sabet M, Shishegar A, Saeedi AR and Ghahari S. 2015. Pentoxifylline increases antiadhesion effect of streptokinase on postoperative adhesion formation: involvement of fibrinolytic pathway. Indian J Surg 77(3): S837–S842.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Line 32 and 104: Seventy male BALB/c mice were randomized into one of three groups: How were 70 mice divided into 3 equal groups? Number of "n" must be specified in the text.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Some spelling mistakes are given below. 1. Line 38: tissue tPA: “tissue” should be removed. 2. Line 276: Peritoneum Injury: Peritoneum injury. 3. Line 298: such as (TNF-a, IL-1 and IL-6): such as TNF-a, IL-1 and IL-6. References should be re-controlled (References, journal names etc). Some references are same. Line 345: diZerega GS. and Line 347: diZerega GS. Line 348: diZerega GS, and Campeau JD. and Line 350: diZeregal GS, and Campeau JD. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Pentoxifylline decreases post-operative intra-abdominal adhesion formation in an animal model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5434v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Ranjan Gupta ·
May 19, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Manuscript is well written and easily understandable. Literature is well referenced and relevant to the study. Regarding supplemental data, if the data is to be published, I would recommend it to be in a more user friendly format so that I could be understood by most readers even if they are not experts in interpreting statistical data. I would suggest data to be summarized in a table format.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Experimental design is well defined and seems to address the goal of the study appropriately. Scoring system and investigations to assess adhesion formation are detailed and extensive. However, I would suggest further clarification or revision in following areas of methodology: a)In the experimental design (lines 103-118), it is not clear what was done to the Sham group of Mice. My interpretation is that the Sham group is the one without peritoneal adhesion. It is not clear whether this group underwent any kind of surgical intervention or not. Whether there was no intervention at all or this group had open laparotomy and closure without abrading the cecum, needs to be clarified. b)Line 120 mentions that mice were euthanized on post operative days 3 and 7. I would suggest more detailed explanation on how many mice were euthanized on days 3 and 7 respectively, from each group. I assume out of the 3 groups created out of 70 mice, some would be euthanized on day 3 and others on day 7. I would suggest explanation of those numbers and whether they were randomized or not.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Study seems to be well structured and replicable. I would suggest a comment whether any of the experimental mice incurred any side effects (e.g death leading to exclusion from study) from pentoxyfilline administration.
Comments for the author
Since Lauder scoring system was used to classify the severity of adhesions, a table detailing the Lauder system would be very beneficial for readers Cite this review as
Gupta R ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Pentoxifylline decreases post-operative intra-abdominal adhesion formation in an animal model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5434v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 2, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
