Review History for Osteogenesis imperfecta: potential therapeutic approaches [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Osteogenesis imperfecta: potential therapeutic approaches To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 14th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 27th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on July 16th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on July 25th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 27th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Pascal Dollé
·
Jul 27, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for having corrected these last details. I'm confident this article will be of interest for practitioners and scientists interested in caretaking of osteogenesis imperfecta. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Keith Crandall, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 25, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Pascal Dollé
·
Jul 20, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript has been very carefully revised, taking in account all the reviewers comments. I just found a small inconsistency when checking the manuscript. It appears throughout the main text, the term "patient(s)" has been systematically replaced by "subject(s)". On the other hand, all figure titles and legends refer to "patient(s)". The authors may want to double check if this is intentional or if the same term should be used throughout the manuscript. I also noticed two small typos in line 280 : ...and five mandibular anterior osseointegrated implants were published. (Prabhu et al. 2007). There was also a report of successful implant therapy in subject affected by type III OI: there should be no full-stop sign before the Prabhu ref., and the sentence should read:... in a subject affected by.... The authors may want to proof-read again the revised manuscript, especially for the revised sections. Besides these minor issues, the manuscript is clearly acceptable for publication, and a revised version of the Text file (if necessary) would be sufficient for acceptance. With best regards, Pascal Dollé
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 16, 2018
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Pascal Dollé
·
Jun 27, 2018
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers provide a number of suggestions that would improve the manuscript and/or clarify certain points. Reviewer 2, in particular, has suggestions on points that would require further discussion or details (interest of complementary examination, such as cone beam computed tomography, before implant therapy, risks of biphosphonate treatment withdrawing, details on the patients described and the implant therapy, potential new pharmacological treatments...) Please carefully take in account these comments, and revise the manuscript accordingly. Looking forward to receive your revised version, and with best regards.
label_author_1
Supawich Morkmued ·
Jun 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a well written review article with clear, unambiguous, professional, and technically correct text. Literature references and contexts are sufficient. The structure of the article is well format. This review paper contains a board and extensive on Osteogenesis Imperfecta, bringing useful therapeutic approaches especially for dental practitioners. I would recommend publication as it unites clinical dentistry with and extensive information in medical research. As the reviewer, my only criticisms are; 1.Line 46, (sentence)…in the body. Could the authors indicate one or a few references? For instance review articles or about the genetic basis of OI (COL mutations) - useful as PeerJ is a multidisciplinary journal. 2.Line 129, please consider replacing/spelling the abbreviation of “VDO” as I could not find this full name in the manuscript 3.Line 131, I am not quite sure about “Establishing a dental home”. Could you please clarify? 4.Line 138, line-paragraph is broken. 5.Line 191, the word “Osteogenesis Imperfecta” is not in abbreviation. Is it a mistake? 6.Line 218, “Type” - “t” in the lowercase. 7.At references section (line 293-438), there were some journals using the full name and some were not. Please do these consistently regarding the journal format. 8.General comment for Figures: there is no mention of the origin of the pictures/patients shown (from literature? or more likely from the authors clinical archives?) This should be clarified - iconographic sources should be indicated. 9.Figure 2, could you please add more precise explanations such as “Panoramic radiograph of a patient affected by OI type III with missing teeth and DI”? Text and letter L (bottom right) should not appear on Figure. 10.Table 1, it would be complete if you could insert “Type V: Moderately deforming” (from Rauch F and Glorieux FH, Lancet 2004) in your table because it was missing.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This review article contains both literature articles and their own data with a comprehensive and coverage of the OI. The organization is logical and simple for general practitioners.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusions were appropriately stated and supported by the results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This review article has collected scientific and clinical relevance of OI. Authors recommended therapeutic approaches respectively on each clinical manifestations of disease. These data indicate that a multidisciplinary team approach is favored in moderate and severe cases as the variability in the degree of severity of OI patients may vary the outcome of treatments. Overall, this is a well-organized and precise therapeutic guidance for all health professionals especially for dentists. Background evidence is solid and well presented. In addition, the manuscript is clearly written in professional, unambiguous language. If there is a weakness, it is generally in the “Basic reporting” as I have noted above which should be improved upon before Acceptance. Cite this review as
Morkmued S ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Osteogenesis imperfecta: potential therapeutic approaches (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5464v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 25, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Clear description of the disease (Osteogenesis imperfecta) of clinical interest. good reason for this review with an adequate introduction of the subject. Names of the gene (COL1A1 and COL1A2) should be put in italic. Abstact: line 32: simple extraction can be performed after multi-disciplinary concertation
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Exhaustive literature review in the field of osteogenesis imperfect, regarding the clinical, phenotypic and therapeutic aspects. Sources are well cited and recent concerning the clinical studies of biphosphonate treatment effects on jaw bone and implants treatments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Interest of cone beam computed tomography exams could be discussed in the phenotypic characterization of the disease and the pre-surgical imaging, before implants of orthognathic surgery. Use of zirconia preformed crowns in temporary dentition for esthetic rehabilitation of anterior teeth and also for posterior treatments could be more discussed. Conclusion coud also open on potential new pharmacological treatments of OI.
Comments for the author
line 152: full coverage is preferred when clinical or radiological signes of post-eruptive breakdowns are diagnosed. line 155: discussion of the clinical difficulties for endodontic therapies in OI patients line 261: Discuss the risks of biphosphonate treatment withdrawing for OI patients line 270: add the exhaustive pre-surgical clinical and radiological examinations before implants therapy line 273: add the number of implants placed in the study and the clinical situations of the patient (number of missing teeth) Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Osteogenesis imperfecta: potential therapeutic approaches (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5464v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 14, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
