Review History for Investigating diversity of pathogenic microbes in commercial bait trade water [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Investigating diversity of pathogenic microbes in commercial bait trade water To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 29th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 6th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on July 26th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 27th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Jul 27, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for improving your manuscript according to the reviewers' suggestions. Thank you for submitting your work to this journal. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by James Reimer, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 26, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Jul 6, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors, The reviewers have commented on your above paper. They indicated that it is not acceptable for publication in its present form. However, if you feel that you can suitably address the reviewers' comments, with special consideration to the comments about the experimental design, I invite you to revise and resubmit your manuscript. Best regards
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article describes findings from a microbial DNA analysis of 96 water samples collected from holding tanks in bait shops located in eight states in the Great Lakes Region. Findings were compared to data from a single location near Beaver Island which is located in the northernmost area of Lake Michigan. This article is well-written and the abstract appropriately summarizes the research hypothesis, methods and findings. The number and selection of articles cited seems appropriate.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The research described is original and the question being addressed is relevant to the quality and protection of the Great Lakes ecosystem. The experimental design used to select water samples for analysis appears valid, however it is unclear why so many of the bait shops were located in Michigan and why so many of the Michigan locations appear to be more than 50 miles from the nearest Great Lake shoreline. The sampling of the ‘control’ area in northern Lake Michigan is not described, however an earlier article by Hengy et al. is referenced. This section includes a detailed description of the genetic analysis. This is not an area I am qualified to evaluate and should be reviewed by others who work in this area. The genetic analysis was limited to a relatively small number of pathogens. A USGS report on pathogens found at beaches on the Great Lakes assessed common fecal bacteria including E. coli, Enterococci, Cryptosporidium, and norovirus, among others of public health concern (https://pubs.usgs.gov/fs/2013/3071/pdf/fs2013-3071.pdf). Yet none of these were included in this article which summarizes findings for 12 pathogens, many of which seem less likely to be of concern to the Great Lakes. The selection of pathogens merits additional explanation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The author’s findings are interesting and appear valid.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is an interesting article that describes original research. However, there are limitations in the study design the most important of which seems to be the selection and number of pathogens included in the analysis. The relevance of the authors’ findings to the condition of the Great Lakes ecosystem, the safety of public source waters, and to the health of wildlife, domestic animals, anglers and beachgoers is not clear. For example, genetic sequencing does not indicate whether the identified organisms are viable or whether a pathogen can survive and replicate in the cold waters of these lakes. Perhaps the discussion section could be expanded to include ideas for future research that would answer questions regarding the potential for the identified pathogens, as well as pathogens not included in this study but likely to be found in bait shop tanks, to survive in the Great Lakes and infect aquatic biota, public water supplies, animals, swimmers and consumers of fish from these lakes. Minor editorial suggestions: 1. In line 103, the word ‘identify’ should be changed to ‘identity’. 2. The numbers in Table 1 do not exactly match the dots of the map in Fig 1. Perhaps the dots in Fig 1 are too large to show all sampling sites. 3. Tables 2, 3 and 4 should be revised to be more easily compared. I suggest listing pathogens in alphabetical order and use of the same font for each table. Tables 3 and 4 should show the number of positive samples. Percent can be shown in parentheses, but this likely isn’t necessary due to the small number of samples included in this study. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Investigating diversity of pathogenic microbes in commercial bait trade water (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5468v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Erik Pilgrim ·
Jul 5, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Really, my only concern with the manuscript is that the authors use a single wild location in Lake Michigan as a basis for comparison of all the bait shops spread around the region. I don't think it's appropriate to make broad statements about the amount of pathogen signal present in bait water vs lake water when using only one location in the wild. I suggest using at least a few more lake sites, possibly from a few other of the Great Lakes.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
As stated above, the findings need more grounding against natural/field conditions. Otherwise the science of the manuscript is sound.
Cite this review as
Pilgrim E ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Investigating diversity of pathogenic microbes in commercial bait trade water (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5468v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 29, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
