Review History for Phylogeography of Swertia perennis in Europe based on cpDNA markers [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Phylogeography of Swertia perennis in Europe based on cpDNA markers To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 6th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 4th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on June 18th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on July 29th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 3rd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Richard Cowling
·
Aug 3, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am satisfied that the language has been sufficiently improved and other minor technical issues have been addressed. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Patricia Gandini, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 29, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Richard Cowling
·
Jun 20, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for your revised manuscript. While the paper is technically sound, the language requires substantive improvement before it is acceptable for an English language journal. You will see on the attachment that I have identified several sentences in the Introduction which require improvements in language. I have also edited the Conclusions. I suggest that you persuade a colleague who is both proficient in English and in plant phylogeography to edit the entire manuscript. I look forward to seeing the revision.
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 18, 2018
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Richard Cowling
·
Apr 4, 2018
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both reviewers agree that your paper includes data that warrant publication but there are several substantive points that need to be addressed in a revision. Both believe that the study is compromised by a low sample size (within and across populations) and both recommend that the study is more clearly framed as a research question or hypothesis. I agree with them. Please address these and other concerns raised by the reviewers in your revision.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 29, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The documentation and presentation is very good, most parts are well written, but there are many language errors (article use, singular/plural) and also typos. Otherwise documentation and main parts are well written although there are some language issues with the grammar which would need attention There are plenty of language problems – e.g.: Line 55: level of gene flow in the recent past?, line 58: difficult to speculate about relations?? 118 Taberlet, 137: inhabits, 148 flourishEs.350 formation of divergent cpDNA? 355 specialist sp.?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors provide a phylogeographical study based on cpDNA variation of populations of Swertia perennis, a species of minerotrophic bogs and alpine wet grasslands widespread in Eurasia, but disjunctly distributed in Europe. The authors studied mainly populations of European mountains although the species is widely distributed in Eurasia. Despite haplotypic variation found the authors could not confirm any clear genetic and phylogeographical structure, which does not allow strong conclusions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors evidenced that there is a lack of phylogeographical patterns and raise several possibilities (postglacial immigration, many refugia,…) as explanation. As the sampling is uneven I would recommend to provide the total distribution of the species in the study area. This should give additional support for the “lacking pattern”. I can follow more or less that there is a (complete?) lack of phylogeographic structure, nevertheless they could test hypotheses. It might me worthwhile to test the hypothesis that (like in other alpine species) late/postglacial immigration from Central Asia might be a valid explanation for the pattern observed. Swertia perennis is a very common species in large parts of Eurasia. I am also not fully convinced that there is no phylogeographical structure, the three Alpine samples cluster in one clade. I suggest that the authors provide at least summary statistics (e.g., using Arlequin) to show lack of pattern (e.g. using AMOVAS of regions). Also other statistical phylogeographical approaches could be taken into account. (testing for expansion, etc.). The authors state that “clonality” could have an effect, were more than sample per population analyzed? This is unclear. I understood that only one sample per population was sequenced, this no conclusions on clonality could be drawn.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Phylogeography of Swertia perennis in Europe based on cpDNA markers (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5512v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 2, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The presented manuscript of Urbaniak et al. addresses phylogeographic differentiation of Swertia perennis, the plant species occurred in peat bogs of northern hemisphere. The authors based their study on the cpDNA markers to elucidate the history of its nowadays distribution. As the information of the phylogeography of wetland species in Europe is still insufficient, the paper brought some news to our knowledge of the genetic differentiation of this group of species. The methods used seems to be adequate and the manuscript seems to be well structured. However, the manuscript needs to be improved before an acceptance to the publishing. The authors used only one individual per population and they should be more aware of their hypotheses thorough the text. Every time they should use something like “the individuals represented populations” .. not only “populations”. Additionally, they discuss the genetic position and potential history of lowland populations but they used only four populations - also here they should be more cautious. One part of the hypothesis is connected with isolated site or isolated population but we have no definition of these terms and no list of the individuals (populations) linked with these terms. In some parts of the text the authors are not congruent. There is not clear what authors treat as one haplotype – sometimes they used parsimony network, sometimes phylogenetic tree. It could be explain and consistent. Maybe they should list somewhere in the results the numbers of localities shared the same haplotypes or put it in the Table 1. The manuscript should be also linguistically and grammatically improved. As the English is not my mother language I do not feel good enough to improve it. The authors should check carefully the German, Slovak, Czech last names and names of localities for diacritical marks – as there are many differences between references and the main text; in the table 1 there is any for Slovak localities.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Original primary research within Aims and Scope of the journal. The submission should clearly define the research question, which must be relevant and meaningful - see the comment in the basic reporting section. Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical & ethical standard. Methods should be described with sufficient information to be reproducible by another investigator - see the comment in the basic reporting section.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Conclusion are well stated, linked to original research question & limited to supporting results, but see in the basic reporting. Speculation is welcome, but should be identified as such, .
Comments for the author
For the authors: The presented manuscript of Urbaniak et al. addresses phylogeographic differentiation of Swertia perennis, the plant species occurred in peat bogs of northern hemisphere. The authors based their study on the cpDNA markers to elucidate the history of its nowadays distribution. As the information of the phylogeography of wetland species in Europe is still insufficient, the paper brought some news to our knowledge of the genetic differentiation of this group of species. The methods used seems to be adequate and the manuscript seems to be well structured. However, the manuscript needs to be improved before an acceptance to the publishing. The authors used only one individual per population and they should be more aware of their hypotheses thorough the text. Every time they should use something like “the individuals represented populations” .. not only “populations”. Additionally, they discuss the genetic position and potential history of lowland populations but they used only four populations - also here they should be more cautious. One part of the hypothesis is connected with isolated site or isolated population but we have no definition of these terms and no list of the individuals (populations) linked with these terms. In some parts of the text the authors are not congruent. There is not clear what authors treat as one haplotype – sometimes they used parsimony network, sometimes phylogenetic tree. It could be explain and consistent. Maybe they should list somewhere in the results the numbers of localities shared the same haplotypes or put it in the Table 1. The manuscript should be also linguistically and grammatically improved. As the English is not my mother language I do not feel good enough to improve it. The authors should check carefully the German, Slovak, Czech last names and names of localities for diacritical marks – as there are many differences between references and the main text; in the table 1 there is any for Slovak localities. Some detailed suggestions: L45: The cpDNA were analysed to detect genetic relationship between… L47: 20 haplotypes were revealed across the dataset. They ….. L54-55: the sentence is not congruent with the text: see l.280-286, 301-303, 323– it should be deleted or written in another way. Introduction: L.63: ..are a consequence of.. l.66: Hewitt….; Taberlet et al.... l.67: ... in the front of… l.69: Slovák .. l.90: …potential refugia for … l.90-91: …in fragmented subranges in several countries: - rewrite - it should be written regard to regions not countries. l.106: Winkler et al., 2012; l.105-107: the authors should mention here the article of Swertia by Lienert at al (2002) at some point. l.111: The populations … l.114: …populations which.. l.118: Taberlet … l.125: .. for investigation the genetic.. l.131: this part of the hypothesis is not well constructed as the authors did not defined and did not listed what they considered as isolated population or isolated site for Swertia perennis in their study. They should explain it and define or change (delete?) this question. The species l.136-137 – somewhere should be done the family of the species. l.137: …is a highly morphologically variable taxon, … l.140: ..but it is also.. l.147: ..cm l.148: It is a diploid… l.148-149: The information about pollination system, fruits and dispersal mode should be done. l.149-150: I will advice at least to cite Lienert, Fischer, Diemer (2002: Local extinctions.. ) and Pawlikowski & Wolkowycki (2010) according to the disappearance of the species localities (or put some sentences with citation). Study area & sampling l.155-160. The authors have to directly write that it was one individual per population. They should also write about their idea of sampling – as they write in l.128 – 1300 km disjunctive distribution, some individuals were sampled in closed populations (see l.294-295) etc l.159: tissue=leaves?, ……in to=into l.160: persevered? DNA isolation…. l.173: ….in these …, ….biogeographically… l.176: trnLF? l.179: The DNA extracts were used to ….. l.184: …45 s min? l.192: analyses cpDNA data… l.199: should be here explain why both cpDNA regions (see l.170: three chloroplast…) l.220: this sentence should be rewrite to be more informative (e.g. In total, 28 sequence of S. perennis individuals and sequences of five other species used as an outgroup……) Results: The spaces between numbers – be consistent with the journal requirements l.228: …populations. l.236: …varied from? l.245: dataset l.246-247: rephrase the sentence l.250: ..populations l.250. …One of them represents a common haplotype … There is not exact as we see on the Fig. 3 two haplotypes: 16,25,27 and 3,4. I think that the authors should be more consistent with using “haplotype” in this paragraph and use word clade or another word for the clade of the tree (eg. L.251-253: Other clade combines two haplotypes: ….). Maybe the authors should rewrite this paragraph to be more clear for readers. I am not sure from the text and figures what authors treat as type of haplotype (what is the primary analysis?). I will also advice to put the names/localities or numbers of some samples. l.256: rewrite sentence: not populations but individual represented population. l.256/7: most of them (how many?) l.258: ..of the same and/or other …. – what does it mean? If the authors have more than one specimen per population the results will be more convinced. They also should put this information in the method section. l. 259 ..across the studied part of the European range (or something like that) Discussion l.256: analyses l.267-270 – I am not convinced if the example of R. pygmaeus is good here as the authors in the next sentence write of the origin of Swertia perennis from Central Asia. Next sentences (l.270) do not prove this hypothesis, rather more complicate it. Maybe the authors should use better explanation of their hypothesis (like diversity of genus Swertia or better explanation of distribution of S.perennis). l.272: across its studied part of …. l.276: .. based on cpDNA from populations existed in ….(geographical regions) l.276-277: the authors did not studied polymorphism within populations! – this sentence should be rewritten or delete. Surely, they should refer to the paper of Groff et al but be aware of the dataset (geographical regions, number of samples per population) l.277-280: delete – it is written l.258.. l.279: analyses l.282-286: this part of the text should be clarified; it should be clearly written that this are the results of Groff et al. In first reading it seems that the authors studied polymorphism within populations (more than one individual per population) and they did not observe seedlings. l.289: please change ..the whole of Europe .. l.290: ..cpDNA of … l.293: ..among close (neighbouring) geographically? l.294: Hala Cebulowa … should be in the new sentence with region listed. l.293-300: should be rewritten to clarify – it is very interesting that close localities are so differentiated l.311: (any citation?) l.318: (17,18,19,26,28) l.319 – delete “the Alps” – none of the listed samples d not originate from the Alps. l.320-322: the authors should be aware here of the glaciations history of the polish lowlands. Maybe the 25 could be the older then 26-28. Maybe the authors will find the palynological papers from these part of Poland with the history based on peat bogs. If so, it could bring a new insight. l.324-326. I am not sure if the example of Quercus species is here good – there are several species and they are woods. l. 326: Dumoulin-Lapègue l.335-337: these sentences should have placement (detailed information of subspecies) in The species section or should be deleted. Conclusion l.341-355: some of the sentences should be rewritten according to changes in the main text. l.341: in Europe: in studied part of European range l.346: other northern taxon types?= other plant taxa with northern distribution? l.347: populations l.348: Alsos et al., 2012). l.350: cpDNA l.355 sp.?? References The authors should carefully check the cited positions in accordance to: diacritical marks, letters of names, letters in titles (small/capital), dots after journal types, comma after last name, spaces. Here are some examples that I noticed: l.369, 372, 373, 376, 408, 430, 435, 465, 497, 502, 518, 565, 568, 571. Figures Fig. 1: Distribution of studied populations of Swertia perennis…. …..analyses. (it would be nice to have distribution range shaded) Check the color for 3, 4 – according to Fig. 3 it should be different and, of course, consistent through all figures. Fig. 2 …Swertia…. Fig. 3. ….of Swertia perennis. The authors should be consistent with the size of the circles: too large for 1,23, 3,4, 7. Be aware of the colors as it was mentions above. Table 1. Sampling localities for the studied individuals of Swertia perennis across the European range of the species. The authors should use the diacritical markers for the localities names. The columns 2, 3 should be left aligned. 27: Kotlina?? Table 2 and 3: Variable positions in the cpDNA t….region within Swertia perennis individuals. ….The number and locality names correspond to Table 1. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Phylogeography of Swertia perennis in Europe based on cpDNA markers (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5512v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 6, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
