Review History for Cytokine and microRNA levels during different periods of paradoxical sleep deprivation and sleep recovery in rats [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Cytokine and microRNA levels during different periods of paradoxical sleep deprivation and sleep recovery in rats To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 14th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 26th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on August 10th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 13th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Howard Young
·
Aug 13, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The changes made are satisfactory and the manuscript is now acceptable. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 10, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Howard Young
·
Mar 26, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Herlinda I am pleased to inform you that the reviewers found your paper to be of interest although they have requested minor revisions. In your revised manuscript, please be sure to address each concern in your cover letter so that the reviewers can determine if your revisions address their concerns. Thank you for submitting to PeerJ and we look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript entitled “Cytokine and microRNA concentrations during different periods of paradoxical sleep deprivation and sleep recovery rats” by Herlinda et. al. has profiled serum cytokines and microRNAs at different length of PSD and after a recovery period. Overall the manuscript is well written with clear background knowledge and discussions of the results. Several previous studies reported either the similar cytokine or microRNA profiles in the PSD animal serum. In this respect, lack of novelty is a major concern of this manuscript. However, this manuscript also focused on the recovery period of PSD with certain extend but not with systemic recovery analysis. Systemic analysis of 192h PSD recovery, for example REM rebound profile and another mid-recovery point analysis, will significantly improve the quality of this study. At the present stage of the manuscript, I suggest considering for publication in PeerJ if a revision address the following concerns.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1.What is the status of REM rebound at 20-day PSD animals? Polysomnography of the 192h post PSD recovering animals should help to address this. 2.I suggest another mid-recovery point analysis of the serum parameters. 3.Is 20 days enough to reestablished sleep cycle homeostasis? Please explain with proper citations. 4.Line 260-265; Adiponectin positively regulate IL10 secretion from macrophages (Kumada, 2004). At 96h of PSD there is significant increase in adiponectin but no elevation of IL-10. Do any of these elevated microRNA suppress the early phase (24h, 96h PSD) of IL-10 induction? I suggest performing a met analysis of IL-10 3’UTR for possible microRNA binding, specifically miR-146a/155/223/16. Similarly, for miR-21 binding sites on the 3’UTRs of the serum protein level tested.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
5.I suggest using conclusion of the result as heading of the result sections. 6.Serum level of IL-6 (Figure1a) is not matching with the data provided in the supplementary file. Please clarify. 7.The result section should be rewritten with clear rational, experimental design and result of each results. 8.Please represent serum corticosterone levels as graph instead of table. 9.I suggest using another independent microRNA reference gene for the serum level microRNA quantification. If the miR-39 was a spike in control, please clearly mention in the materials method section with spiked in copy number. 10.Please mention concentration unit of the cytokines in the supplementary data file.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I enjoyed reviewing this manuscript. Hopefully the suggestions will help to improve the manuscript. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Cytokine and microRNA levels during different periods of paradoxical sleep deprivation and sleep recovery in rats (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5567v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 26, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The English language should be improved in some places. Beginning with the title, the use of the word “concentration” implies the microRNAs were quantitatively measured, but the data are qRT-PCR. Therefore, a more appropriate word choice would be “levels.” Also within the title, the word “in” should be placed before “rats.” Conclusion paragraph within the overview (lines 56-60) has several typos and grammatical issues. Final sentence in this section is a bit vague. More recent citations should be provided in the introduction and discussion. For example, references in lines 76, 78, 93, 255. The introductory background information and contextualization within the discussion should reflect the most recent knowledge. Line 78, could the authors elaborate on what they mean by “recently-acquired knowledge”? Within the results, awkward phrasing can be found on line 187 (“major”). The figure labels (axes and sample IDs) are very tiny and should be increased in size, as well as the significance symbols within the figures.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The inclusion of multiple time points in the study is a strength, as it provides a big picture view of early, late and recovery phases. The methods are very well described.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The methods of the study are well-justified by previous literature. The discussion is very long – it is rather disproportional to the amount of data presented and almost seems to function as a literature review rather than a succinct interpretation of the data. Part of the issue is over speculation about the meaning of the data. Specific areas include lines 249-252, 260-265, 285-289, 297-302, 307-312, 326-333. The authors should condense these discussions or remove them completely. The final paragraph of the discussion undercuts the rigorous nature of the study the authors have performed. The limitations mentioned should be moved to the methods section where the description of the modified multi-platform method is first presented. The results section should end on line 338.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The study is rigorously performed, well controlled, and the methods are clearly described. The only short coming is the discussion where the main findings are lost amongst over speculation and extraneous literature references. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Cytokine and microRNA levels during different periods of paradoxical sleep deprivation and sleep recovery in rats (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5567v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 14, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
