Review History for Distribution of Porphyromonas gingivalis fimA and mfa1 fimbrial genotypes in subgingival plaques [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Distribution of Porphyromonas gingivalis fimA and mfa1 fimbrial genotypes in subgingival plaques To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 16th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 19th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on August 6th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 14th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Aug 14, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Nagano and colleagues: Thanks for revising your manuscript based on the minor concerns raised by the reviewers. I now believe that your manuscript is suitable for publication. Congratulations! I look forward to seeing this work in print, and I anticipate it being an important resource for the Porphyromonas gingivalis pathogenesis community. Thanks again for choosing PeerJ to publish such important work. Best, -joe # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Valeria Souza, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 6, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Jul 19, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Nagano and colleagues: Thanks for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. I apologize for the lengthy review process, as we had trouble finding reviewers. However, I have received two independent reviews of your work, and as you will see, the reviewers raised some concerns about the research. Thus, I extend to you the opportunity to revise your work. Please consider the comments about experimental design, missing statistical analyses, explanation of protocols and approaches, data availability, and minor improvements to overall presentation. I am recommending that you revise your manuscript accordingly, taking into account all of the issues raised by the reviewers. I do believe that your manuscript will be ready for publication once these issues are addressed. Good luck with your revision, -joe
label_author_1
Ashu Sharma ·
Jun 27, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a well described manuscript from a corresponding author who has been doing pioneering work in the area of P. gingivalis fimbrial protein biochemistry and genetics. The findings of the study challenge some of the previous reports indicating that certain types of fimA genotypes (such as type II) are strongly associated with severity of periodontitis. The study is significant and its scientific merit is high.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Specific comments: 1. You performed sequencing of 16S rDNA amplicons followed by BLAST search. Are the results of this analysis included in the supplemental File 2? (please mention this in the text). 2. Thanks for providing the raw data and calculations in the Excel files. However, it is difficult to grasp what each column/row represents and what is being done to the data. It would be nice if you could provide clear identifiers and some description in the figure legends as to what each File/sheet presents (currently there are no figure legends).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Overall, the study was performed with high rigor, data are presented well and proper conclusions are drawn.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a well described manuscript from a corresponding author who has been doing pioneering work in the area of P. gingivalis fimbrial protein biochemistry and genetics. The findings of the study challenge some of the previous reports indicating that certain types of fimA genotypes (such as type II) are strongly associated with severity of periodontitis. The study is significant and its scientific merit is high. Cite this review as
Sharma A ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Distribution of Porphyromonas gingivalis fimA and mfa1 fimbrial genotypes in subgingival plaques (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5581v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 10, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript by Nagano et al examined association between P. gingivalis fimbrial genotypes and periodontitis severity. Experiments indicated that there was no association between fimbrial genotypes and periodontitis severity. Major concern is the novelty of this study, since several similar studies have been reported.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1. Ln 151-152, please indicate why dental plaque samples were resuspended in either RTF or water. 2. Ln 161, need details on DNA purification. 3. Ln 172-173, “Plaque samples in RTF or water were directly used as PCR templates”. How did you collect DNA? 4. Ln204-206, “Among the 100 samples, both fimbrial types were detected in 63 and a single type in 15 samples, whereas 22 had no fimbrial genes. Why not use Pg 16s to determine Pg level. Is no fimbrial gene means no Pg?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Table 1 did not include statistical analysis.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Distribution of Porphyromonas gingivalis fimA and mfa1 fimbrial genotypes in subgingival plaques (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5581v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 16, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
