Review History for A new species of Leptobrachium (Anura, Megophryidae) from western Thailand [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A new species of Leptobrachium (Anura, Megophryidae) from western Thailand To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 31st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 6th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on August 14th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 15th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marcio Pie
·
Aug 15, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I believe you properly addressed all of the issues raised by the reviewers. Congratulations on finding such a beautiful species! # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by David Roberts, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 14, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marcio Pie
·
Aug 6, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Although both reviews were positive, they identified a number of minor issues that should be addressed before the paper can be accepted. In particular, please pay special attention to the annotated pdf from Reviewer 2.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 2, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Some minor comments Line 47. ‘asian’ should be Asian Line 64-67 and other places. Please minimize the use of brackets. Line 67. ‘letter’ should be ‘latter” Line 168-171. This description is unconventional. Bootstrap values below 50 may indicate that these nodes are not-well-supported; however, most of these nodes are clearly resolved. Line 205-209. The most meaningful comparison is comparing the distance between L. sp. Vs L. smithi to 1) pairwise distances between recognized sister groups, and 2) the highest intraspecific divergence. Line 332. “polydominant” should be predominant. Line 404. Please move this and the following paragraphs to the beginning of the section “comparisons”, because they are the most important. Lines 434-439. Please remove any sentences that discuss the phylogenetic relationships of the genus. MtDNA may be sufficient to distinguish species, but far from sufficient to build phylogenies. Line 447-452. Long sentence. Break it. Table 1 could be an appendix. It is not essential.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Conclusion is well supported
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "A new species of Leptobrachium (Anura, Megophryidae) from western Thailand (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5584v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jian-Huan Yang ·
Aug 6, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Article is generally well-written, although there are still some minor errors in language. The literature references are sufficient, but the introduction needs more details, particularly on the recognition of subgeneric classification and the “Leptobrachium smithi complex”. Like, the author mentioned “L. smithi complex” in the text a few time, but without any brief background about this species complex. This aspect may be presented in the introduction to make the issue understandable. The article structure conforms to the acceptable formations.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Materials and methods are correct and sufficient for the scope of the paper. Methods are described with sufficient details are reproducible by other researchers. But the currently presented data is not an integrated taxonomic approach that the author claim in the introduction.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The presented data are basically sufficient for supporting the validity of the new species being described, although adding more supporting data on acoustics is highly recommended. Some mistakes in the comparison section, and figure can be noted.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
See attached file for more comments/corrections. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Yang J ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "A new species of Leptobrachium (Anura, Megophryidae) from western Thailand (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5584v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 31, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
