Review History for Osteology of a forelimb of an aetosaur Stagonolepis olenkae (Archosauria: Pseudosuchia: Aetosauria) from the Krasiejów locality in Poland and its probable adaptations for a scratch-digging behavior [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Osteology of a forelimb of an aetosaur Stagonolepis olenkae (Archosauria: Pseudosuchia: Aetosauria) from the Krasiejów locality in Poland and its probable adaptations for a scratch-digging behavior To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 8th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 19th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on August 13th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 16th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Virginia Abdala
·
Aug 16, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for take into consideration the suggestions of our reviewers. I think that the manuscript is ready for publication. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Andrew Farke, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 13, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Virginia Abdala
·
Jun 19, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I agree with our reviewers that your paper is publishable after following all their suggestions. Please, take them into full consideration. [# PeerJ Staff Note: It is PeerJ policy that additional references suggested during the peer-review process should only be included if the authors are in agreement that they are relevant and useful #]
label_author_1
William Parker ·
May 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Manuscript is very well written for an author for whom English is not their first language; however, there are still quite a few grammatical errors that I have made suggestions for correcting throughout the text. The background materials are sufficient and literature references appropriate. The article is well-figured and has a good amount of useful supplemental material.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This is not the first time digging has been proposed for aetosaurs, but this is the most thorough treatment of that hypothesis to date. The hypothesis is well supported and discussion is clear. Methods are sufficiently described including in the supplemental materials. I have no suggested improvements.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The data are robust and conclusions well stated. I have no suggested improvements.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a well designed study and a well organized and written manuscript. There are some grammatical errors that need to be corrected. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Parker WG ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Osteology of a forelimb of an aetosaur Stagonolepis olenkae (Archosauria: Pseudosuchia: Aetosauria) from the Krasiejów locality in Poland and its probable adaptations for a scratch-digging behavior (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5595v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 17, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is quite well-written and easily understood. It would benefit from some editing by a native English speaker, but otherwise there are few problems. Generally speaking the references are adequate, although I think Long and Murry (1995) should be cited more often and Long and Ballew (1985) would also be good to include. Personally, I would like to see a Figure 1 with a map and generalized stratigraphic understanding of the locality—I just think it's always good to try to provide geographic and geologic context of the fossils, even if that's not the primary thrust of the paper. Although the figures themselves are well-executed, they would benefit if they were subdivided (e.g., Fig. 1A, 1B, !C) and if the author would take advantage of that, as it is sometimes difficult to decide which figure to look at to see specific morphology described in the text. I'm also not convinced that the figures are cited consecutively (e.g., Fig. 1 is the first figure called out).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This paper is straightforward and thorough, basically, I think that the scientific content is sound and well worth publishing. All of the criteria Peer J lists for this section (original, well-defined, relevant, rigorous, replicable) are satisfied.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I believe the author has adequately documented their work and I think that their findings are valid. I do think that it may be beneficial to cite a reference or two regarding things such as the presence of keratin inferred from bone texture (more than just "personal observation) as there's certainly literature out there.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall this was an easy paper to review, and I think it should be published with minor revision. Other than my previous comments on the figures, the only major problem is that there are parts of 3 different sentences (none complete) on line 569. I do think that a close reading by a native English speaker/editor will take the text from "very good" to "excellent." I am traveling so cannot easily scan my copy of the manuscript, but I will try to find a way to send it to the editors. Obviously I'm biased, but I think Heckert et al. (2010) should be cited on line 32 and Heckert and Lucas (2000) on lines 36, 92, and 595. Long and Murry (1995) should be cited on line 83, 595, 608 260—"figure 8"-shaped, perhaps? 271—concaves is not a word, a different word is needed there. line 595 should include citations of Long and Ballew (1985) Line 898—italicize _Desmatosuchus_ My copy of Supplementary Figure 12 includes many typos in the captions (mostly missing spaces between words). Also, the correct attribution of species for _Longosuchus_ is _Longosuchus meadei_ (Sawin) 1947, as Sawin named the species, which was reassigned to the new genus _Longosuchus_ by Hunt and Lucas (1990). Although the limbs are incomplete, the author may want to look at the small aetosaur _Coahomasuchus_. I think that _C. chathamensis_ (Heckert et al., 2017) has enough preserved to at least see what the ratio of the ulna-radius to the humerus is. Heckert, A. B., Fraser, N. C., and Schneider, V. P., 2017, A new species of Coahomasuchus (Archosauria: Aetosauria) from the Upper Triassic Pekin Formation, Deep River Basin, North Carolina: Journal of Paleontology, v. 91, no. 1, p. 162-178. See also: Heckert, A.B., and Lucas, S.G., A new aetosaur (Archosauria:Crurotarsi) from the Upper Triassic of Texas and the phylogeny of aetosaurs. Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology, v. 19, p. 50-68. http://www.jstor.org/stable/4523969 Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Osteology of a forelimb of an aetosaur Stagonolepis olenkae (Archosauria: Pseudosuchia: Aetosauria) from the Krasiejów locality in Poland and its probable adaptations for a scratch-digging behavior (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5595v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 8, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
