Review History for Identification of a truncated splice variant of IL-18 receptor alpha in the human and rat, with evidence of wider evolutionary conservation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Identification of a truncated splice variant of IL-18 receptor alpha in the human and rat, with evidence of wider evolutionary conservation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 31st, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 9th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on August 12th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 15th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Santosh Patnaik
·
Aug 15, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The minor concerns raised by the reviewers have been adequately addressed in the resubmitted manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 12, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Santosh Patnaik
·
Jun 9, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The two reviewers of the manuscript have suggested very minor changes to the manuscript. Regarding the suggestion of reviewer 1, indeed it will be of help to readers if the new human and rat variant sequences can be provided. Please consider depositing the sequences in a nucleic acid sequence database such as NCBI GenBank, and providing the accession numbers in the manuscript. As for the suggestion of reviewer 2, I recommend using HGNC-approved gene symbols (http://www.genenames.org/) and providing aliases at the first mentions of the gene names. Thus, 'SIGIRR (IL1R8)' is okay, but 'IL1RII' can be replaced with 'IL1R2.'
label_author_1
Diana Boraschi ·
Jun 8, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comment. The paper complies will all that is requested.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This is an original work, clearly structured and conducted, based on a well-defined scientific question. Methods are exhaustively described. No other comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Reported data are solid and based on sound methodologies. Conclusions are fully in line with the data reported without any sort of overinterpretation.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The study “Identification of a truncated splice variant of IL-18 receptor alpha in the human and rat, with evidence of wider evolutionary conservation” by Booker and Grattan is a very interesting evaluation of the presence of transcripts, in man and rat, coding for an alternatively spliced truncated form of IL-1R5 (the binding chain of the IL-18 receptor complex). The lack of a complete intracellular domain leads to hypothesize that this receptor might have decoy functions, similarly to IL-1R2. The difference between the human alternative receptor (and those predicted in several other animal species) and the receptor identified in mouse and rat is the length of the intracellular domain, very short in rodents (suggesting a purely decoy function) but longer in man (the first TIR box is preserved) suggesting the possibility of an alternative functional role. The authors speculate on the possible functions of these receptors across species, but correctly point out that no evidence is available regarding the cell types expressing the alternative receptor, or showing that the receptor is actually expressed as a protein. The paper is very detailed and overall very interesting, in particular for the evaluation of receptor evolution and its biological significance. I only have a minor point. Since the authors have sequenced the human and rat alternative receptor cDNA fragments it would be of help to the reader to see the final consensus sequences, rather than a table listing the parameters and results of the sequence analysis, or in addition to it. Cite this review as
Boraschi D ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Identification of a truncated splice variant of IL-18 receptor alpha in the human and rat, with evidence of wider evolutionary conservation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.560v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 9, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The figures are well conceived and very helpful in understanding of the novel IL-18R alpha truncation in humans are other species.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The data are generated using state of the art methods. The data are reproducible.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data allow one to make the conclusions as stated by the authors. The comparable finding in thr human IL-1R type 2 is very consistent. There is, however, a new nomenclature and IL-1RII is now written as IL-1R2. SIGIRR is now IL-1R8. IL-18R alpha should is correct. But for the truncation, thius Reviewer recommends IL-18Ralpha2
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Very nice work Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Identification of a truncated splice variant of IL-18 receptor alpha in the human and rat, with evidence of wider evolutionary conservation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.560v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 31, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
