Review History for 60S dynamic state of bacterial ribosome is fixed by yeast mitochondrial initiation factor 3 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History 60S dynamic state of bacterial ribosome is fixed by yeast mitochondrial initiation factor 3 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 14th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 2nd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on August 21st, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 21st, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Bettina Böttcher
·
Aug 21, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You adressed the concerns apropriately. I think you made a valid observation, which is worth sharing with the public. However, to me, the importance and nature of the dynamic 60S-state remains unclear. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 21, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Bettina Böttcher
·
Jul 2, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both reviewers have serious concerns about the experimental design, a lack of controls and validations by orthogonal experiments. As it stands the manuscript is not acceptable. To make the manuscript acceptable you need to address the experimental issues including controls and validation by orthogonal experiments as outlined by reviewer 2 In addition you should tone down your discussion to give a more appropriate and balanced interpretation of the results.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jun 19, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The language needs substantial improvement, the citations are sufficient.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The rational for the experiments are not well-elaborated and the physiological significance is unclear. The experimental design is poor and lacks obvious controls.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The manuscript revolves around two sets of experiments that are not vaildated by additional, well-approachable experiments to determine kinetics of subunit dissociation. Data are therefore not robust and do not support the conclusion or the proposed model.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
More work will be required to elaborate the findings of this manuscript. Standard methodology can be applied. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "60S dynamic state of bacterial ribosome is fixed by yeast mitochondrial initiation factor 3 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5620v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 28, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is written with clarity with appropriate structure and context and the article meets the requirements for providing raw data for PeerJ. The authors provide a series of experiments including bacterial growth curves, ribosome profiles augmented with recombinant proteins and molecular modelling. For the most part the figures are clear and easy to follow.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The original aims are clear - the authors wished to see if a yeast mitochondrial factor can complement for a bacterial initiation factor by analogy to a related study where this was done with a mammalian factor. The study runs a risk of being phenomenological, as it is not clear that the entity they describe has any relation to physiological complexes that might actually form. Issues related to technical rigour and description of methods are as follows: 1.Growth curves for bacterial cells do not appear to have error bars or they might not be very large. The raw data suggest that a number of technical replicates were made but it is not clear how this relates to the data in the graph – were mean values and standard deviations calculated? And plotted? 2.The western blot in Fig. 2B is used as evidence that Aim23deltaNdeltaC cannot bind to the ribosomal subunits. These data are incomplete. The authors need to show the input samples as well as the samples taken from the gradient, particularly as they only sample two peaks. How are we to know that the researcher who carried out the experiment didn’t simply forget to add the reagent to those samples?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
On the basis of their data, the authors conclude conclude that the yeast mitochondrial initiation factor is stabilizing a new “60S” form of the ribosome that is locked in pre-dissociated state. There are some issues with this interpretation, mainly because it relies on just a few observations from one kind of experiment and there are no orthogonal methods to support these data. It is important that the authors tone down their claims as the language used is far too strong. 1.It is not clear what the molecular modelling brings to the study as the proposed model has not been validated experimentally. The authors should avoid discussing the model as if it has high precision e.g. Line 357-9 ‘This has been confirmed by the molecular modelling … terminal extensions of Aim 23p … have been shown to interact directly with the core protein part which probably makes Aim32P “fixed” on the small subunit.’ 2.The observation that a 60S particle is formed is based on the ribosome profiling curves presented in figure 2. The apparent 60S peak might really be the sum of the 50S and 70S curves, suggesting that it is not a new entity that is being formed, but rather Aim23p is inefficient at subunit dissociation. For a 60S particle to form it suggests that the ribosome would become more compact compared to the 70S to have a smaller hydrodynamic radius. It is hard to imagine how this would occur in the context of all of the structural data available for ribosome particles. Furthermore, if Aim23p were stabilising a dissociation complex, one might expect that it would act as a dominant negative in cells, yet this is contrary to what the authors observe [line 371-2 ‘… the presence of even large amount of Aim23p in E. coli cells with physiological amount of the cognate IF3 has no effect on bacterial viability…’]. One would also expect to see more 60S at higher concentrations of Aim23p and again this is contrary to what the authors observe (Fig 2B). Unless there are orthogonal data to support the existence of the 60S particle directly, it is not appropriate to state that: Line 209 ‘…we have to hypothesize that Aim23p somehow affects the whole ribosome structure…’ Line 248-9 ‘The only possible explanation of this phenomenon is that “60S state” is indeed subjected to dissociation easier than the normal 70S state.’ Line 354 ‘…the 60S intermediate dissociation state has been for the very first time fixed by adding a protein to the ribosomes…’ These statements should be toned down to give a more nuanced interpretation.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
no comment Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "60S dynamic state of bacterial ribosome is fixed by yeast mitochondrial initiation factor 3 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5620v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 14, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
