Review History for Descriptions of four new species of Minyomerus Horn, 1876 sec. Jansen & Franz, 2018 (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), with notes on their distribution and phylogeny [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Descriptions of four new species of Minyomerus Horn, 1876 sec. Jansen & Franz, 2018 (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), with notes on their distribution and phylogeny To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 19th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 22nd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on August 14th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 24th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Juan J. Morrone
·
Aug 24, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Michael and Nico: The revision is OK so I am suggesting that your paper is accepted. Congratulations!!!! # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Nigel Andrew, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 14, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Juan J. Morrone
·
Jun 22, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Michael and Nico, I have received three reviews of your paper. Please, address them and send me back the corrected version asap. Best regards Juan Morrone
label_author_1
Analía Lanteri ·
Jun 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is written in clear, unambiguous and professional English language. The main objective of this work is to describe four new species of the weevil genus Minyomerus (Curculionidae, Entiminae, Tanymecini), previously revised by the authors of the article, and to integrate the new findings in an updated key and a phylogenetic analysis based on morphological characters. The article is well organized and the structure conforms to PeerJ Standards. The introduction includes the necessary information and background on the taxon under study. The literature is well referenced and relevant. The taxonomic study was based on a sufficient number of specimens collected by the authors and borrowed from different entomological collections. The descriptions are very detailed and the structures of diagnostic value are illustrated with very good photographs (dorsal and lateral habitus, mouthparts, sternites VIII of female, spermathecae). All figures are relevant, high quality and well labeled. The literature is well referenced and relevant.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The new species described have been registered in ZooBank, and the information on LSID’s in provided. A cladistic analysis was performed on a data matrix of 52 morphological characters and 26 terminal taxa (5 outgroups and 21 ingroups), to see the position of the new species in the context of Minyomerus and related genera. The selection of characters and character states was correct. The most parsimonious tree was found using TNT, and NONA was used for the optimization of the characters. The tree with the characters optimized was conveniently illustrated. The cladistics methods are sufficiently detailed and the information given can be replicated. The potential distribution of each new species was assessed applying an ecological modeling approach, using MAXENT, and was shown in maps. The authors adopted the taxonomic concept approach, including the use of taxonomic concept labels and Region Connection Calculus (RCC–5) articulations and alignments. I am not very familiar with this approach and I find it a bit confusing for reading the results, but I understand that the authors are leaders in this matter, not yet commonly used in the taxonomic papers. The details of the RCC–5 alignment are given in free text form in the Supplemental Information, which also describes the content of the data input and output files.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The work provides new taxonomic information. The descriptions of the new species are well justified, same as the results of the cladistics analysis. In the discussion, the authors compared the results of the new phylogeny with those previously obtained. They discussed on the intrageneric relationships and the phylogenetic position of each species in a historical-biogeographic context. In find it interesting and not excessively speculative, however, I have some difficulties in following the indication relative to the taxonomic concept approach. Conclusions are well stated, linked to original research question and limited to supporting results
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The paper provides new basic taxonomic information, consisting on a description of four new weevil species, rigorously described and illustrated. The phylogenetic placement of these species is analyzed and their geographic ranges are discussed in relation to those of their putative sister taxa, based on the results of a niche modeling analysis. The methods applied are classical and correct. All the figures are appropriate and necessary. In my opinion, the taxonomic concept approach applied in this paper is somewhat confusing, as well as the supplementary information relative to this subject, but I am not an expert on this matter. Cite this review as
Lanteri A ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Descriptions of four new species of Minyomerus Horn, 1876 sec. Jansen & Franz, 2018 (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), with notes on their distribution and phylogeny (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5633v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Robert Anderson ·
Jun 19, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a comprehensive, well-written followup to the authors previous paper revising the genus Minyomerus. I have made a few minor comments in the text of the manuscript PDF. I am quite sure that the single specimen of M. ampullaceus is from the stomach/gut contents of a roadrunner. The USNM was quite active in the mid 1900's in supporting identification of gut contents from various species of birds. I have a new Phyxelis from Louisiana known only from USNM specimens from quail stomach contents and the weevil Glaphyrometopus ornithodorus was described from a series of USNM specimens from meadowlark stomach contents. As such, the paragraph related to the natural history of this species should be rewritten. The phylogenetic work appears to be well supported and discussed with all characters and states well-explained. As the authors know, I am not a fan of the taxonomic concept approach but I can understand the authors rationale for its use. The authors have done a nice job of integrating the 4 new species into the key and phylogeny and presenting these results.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
See above.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
See above.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
See above. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Anderson R ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Descriptions of four new species of Minyomerus Horn, 1876 sec. Jansen & Franz, 2018 (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), with notes on their distribution and phylogeny (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5633v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Lourdes Chamorro ·
Jun 21, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
No comment.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
I suggested in the pdf itself that some information may need to be added in the methods section regarding additive/non-additive coding of multistate characters.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No comment.
Comments for the author
This is a thorough study that aims to describe and phylogenetically place 4 new species of Minyomerus. The use of occurrence data to predict distribution ranges for each species is a much welcome approach to this type of study. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Chamorro L ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Descriptions of four new species of Minyomerus Horn, 1876 sec. Jansen & Franz, 2018 (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), with notes on their distribution and phylogeny (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5633v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 19, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
