Review History for Translation, adaptation, validation and performance of the American Weight Efficacy Lifestyle Questionnaire Short Form (WEL-SF) to a Norwegian version: a cross-sectional study [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Translation, adaptation, validation and performance of the American Weight Efficacy Lifestyle Questionnaire Short Form (WEL-SF) to a Norwegian version: a cross-sectional study To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 26th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 5th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on August 17th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 18th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Raymond Niaura
·
Aug 18, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Based upon your satisfactory response to the reviewers' comments, your paper is now suitable for publication in PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 17, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Raymond Niaura
·
Aug 5, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please revise your manuscript in response to the reviewer suggestions, and respond to each point that has been raised.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 7, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Since the study has two aims and a four part research question, it would be helpful in the methods section to identify which question each section is designed to address. For example, construct validity and factor analysis section (study aim 2 part c) of something similar to help with organization and flow.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Analyses address the proposed aims and study questions adequately. Tables are well organized and informative. Please clarify the response rate of 100%. Does this mean that 114 consecutive patients agreed to participation before undergoing the operation and that 111 postoperative patients agreed to study participation? How were missing data handled?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Literature review is thorough. The study purpose and research questions are clearly stated. The discussion is well-written. Limitations of cross-sectional measurement are addressed. No definitive conclusions regarding improvement in eating self-efficacy from pre to post weight loss surgery can be derived from this study. However, this is an acceptable limitation given the primary aim of translating the American English language WEL-SF to Norwegian and to provide preliminary validation data on the translated version of the questionnaire. This study also addresses limitations of the American English Language WEL-SF that should be considered in future validation studies. For example, in item 4 the double-wording problem was addressed. In this sample, the authors found that adding a PC-item was clinically irrelevant. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Translation, adaptation, validation and performance of the American Weight Efficacy Lifestyle Questionnaire Short Form (WEL-SF) to a Norwegian version: a cross-sectional study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.565v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 26, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
