Review History for The CCB-ID approach to tree species mapping with airborne imaging spectroscopy [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The CCB-ID approach to tree species mapping with airborne imaging spectroscopy To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 1st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 2nd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on August 27th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 29th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alison Boyer
·
Aug 29, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the reviewer's comments in detail. The paper is much improved and describes an interesting contribution to remote sensing science. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Ann Hedrick, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 27, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alison Boyer
·
Aug 2, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This is a well-written manuscript that requires only some revisions to the text. Please take care to add references to the text throughout to add context and demonstrate how this work builds upon the existing literature. Also pay attention in your revision to the stylistic, spelling, and acronym suggestions provided by the reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is concise, clear, and includes a good background of advances and challenges of identifying tree species from hyperspectral images. The figures and tables are relevant and well-designed. The data used in this study are available from NEON. The author has provided the information necessary to locate and download the data.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The author introduced the CCB-ID approach to identifying trees, based on two machine learning methods (gradient boosting classifier and random forest classifier). Both methods were rigorously applied in terms of fitting parameters, training (model and probability calibration), and testing. The hyperspectral dataset was refined to remove spectral outliers and to reduce dimensionality (through PCA). The tree dataset was processed to remove class imbalance (some species with hundreds of samples, other species with tens or less samples). The author provided details of each step of data preprocessing and model fitting, training, and testing.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The CCB-ID approach proposed in this study produced promising results (high accuracy and low cross-entropy), but also identified limitations (mapping rare species) and components of the workflow that are problematic and need further development. The author summarized well the advantages of CCB-ID and the limitations and improvements needed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I appreciate the author’s use of taxonomic approach to thinking about classifying trees from hyperspectral data. The methods are explained in detail. I think this study will inspire further work to fine-tune the CCB-ID approach. I enjoyed reading this manuscript. Below is a list of minor editing suggestions. Abstract: spell out acronyms (CCB-ID, NIST, ECODSE, NEON); replace “obviate” with a more commonly used synonym – here and throughout the manuscript Introduction: lines 34-35: spell out NIST and ECODSE Materials and Methods lines 77-78: mention that the data are freely available through NEON (in case ecodse.org will become inactive in a few years). line 120: the specific epithet “styraciflua” is misspelled as “styaciflua”; the same epithet was misspelled as “stryaciflua” in Figures and Tables. Double check all scientific names. line 193: the use of “sample scale” here is confusing; please explain at the beginning of Methods the difference between sample scale and crown-scale Discussion line 270: reword “showed different within…” Conclusions: line 334: reword “wasn’t” Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "The CCB-ID approach to tree species mapping with airborne imaging spectroscopy (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5666v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 28, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript has good voice and flow throughout. However, there are several opportunities to make more solid statements by adding references to them.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The author clearly explains the methods used, the assumptions made, and decisions to reach to the conclusions. However, there are some details about the research that only come later in the manuscript. The reader will benefit from having important details presented earlier in the manuscript, such as the sample sizes and how these changed throughout the different stages in the methods.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The author reports a new method to build on the efforts to classify tree species. However, the decisions made early in the methods could be influencing the reported overall accuracy and also be influencing further analyses. While the author acknowledges this situation, the way that overall findings are presented could be misleading. I suggest to explicitly account for the uncertainty added by including a low sample size for underrepresented species in the overall accuracy assessment (e.g. report the accuracy of the method to discern a) all species and b) the species for which there are sufficient samples like Quercus and Pinus).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Line 2-14 This paragraph addresses the need for data to map species, and offer the possibility to do so via image spectroscopy. While this is true for vegetation, the text appear to be true for other groups. Later it is acknowledged, but I recommend to do so earlier. Line 32 What NIST stands for? Line 52 What are the characteristics of the referred subset? Are there any examples? Lines 54-59 would benefit from a reference for the statement. Lines 73 Are there important characteristics from the types of data used (e.g short description for each data set, sample size, etc.) Line 109 Is there a reference range used elsewhere? E.g. why 100 and not 1000 ?, which is an exaggeration, but not knowing the typical range the reader cannot have an idea of the authors choice. Line 146 What is F1? Line 149 Likewise, what is RCF? Please indicate this and other acronyms Line 211 How does this accuracy score compares to other participants? This will be useful to see the relevance of this metho Line 259 With a sample size of 1, the result could be like tossing a coin. Please see the comment to Table 1 Line 301 Is there a reference that leads you to this inference? Line 334 The use of contractions (i.e. Wasn’t ) was not used earlier, so probably avoid it here for consistence. Table 1. I understand that the confusion matrix is at the sample level, which implies that the numbers in the tables correspond to the numbers of samples evaluated. If that is the case, why there is only 1 testing sample for several species? The author acknowledges this in the discussion but has not fully explain how this low sample size could be influencing the accuracies. These low samples should probably be excluded from the overall accuracy scores from the method used or at its best, provide the overall method accuracy with and without excluding these species samples. Scaling –up. How is the data representative for other species/locations? This idea is barely touched in line 342 but not fully developed to see how it can scale-up. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "The CCB-ID approach to tree species mapping with airborne imaging spectroscopy (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5666v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 1, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
