Review History for Molecular characterization of the giant freshwater prawn (Macrobrachium rosenbergii) beta-actin gene promoter [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Molecular characterization of the giant freshwater prawn ( Macrobrachium rosenbergii ) beta-actin gene promoter To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 9th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 10th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on September 5th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 6th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Sep 6, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing all critiques raised by both reviewers and for revising the manuscript. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Pedro Silva, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 5, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Aug 10, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address all critical points raised by both reviewers and amend your manuscript accordingly.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 7, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I would like to commend the authors on presenting the data and results in a clear and unambiguous way. I would like to see some improvements made to the introduction. In its present form, the introduction seems like a compilation of semi-disconnected paragraphs. By the end of the introduction, a connection can be seen. But I would suggest modifying the introduction to present a more connected background, which clearly justifies the relevance of the study, as well. Furthermore, the introduction goes into a lot of details about aspects such as humoral factors etc which are not appearing in the study at all. While it is always nice to have sufficient background and teach the reader more about the field, it could also help to shorten it and utilize that section to clearly mention the goals and gains of this study. Some minor errors: 1. In the entire manuscript, please replace the apostrophe with the prime symbol for 5' etc. 2. Corrections needed: Line 45: replace culture with aquaculture line 57: "neutralize against invasion" -- please fix the sentence Line 112: replace nest with nested Line 127-28: change to: ..RNA sample was first treated with CIAP (...) to remove... Line 246: replace islands with island Line 249: Mba54 is used without introducing the concept. Please rearrange this section. Line 345: rosenbergii was (space between the two words is missing)
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors have presented a systematic study and have well characterized the promoter region. The molecular dissection, luciferase studies and identification of the various genetic elements has been very well conducted and presented.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I would again like to complement the authors for presenting a very neat study. They have thoroughly investigated and characterized the beta actin promoter. I have one general comment. While reading the introduction, I got the impression that the use of Mbap over other promoters including Cbap would prove beneficial in driving gene expression. But, their activities are about the same. While it is useful that Mbap works as well as Cbap, I would recommend modifying the introduction accordingly.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Molecular characterization of the giant freshwater prawn (Macrobrachium rosenbergii) beta-actin gene promoter (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5701v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 10, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this manuscript, the authors study and characterize the gene promoter of actb1 in freshwater prawn, which can be a potential approach to protect prawn from disease and therefore benefit aquaculture economics. The author does sufficient and solid work as well as good interpretation of the experiment data. Meanwhile, the conclusions are clearly stated and reasonably drawn according to the experiment data. Overall, the paper is well-prepared without big issue of experiment design or data analysis. The only question is that the last part of study (comparison between prawn and carp actb1 promoter) doesn't fit the whole story of paper well due to the weak connection with previous parts. A better transition is necessary for its addition in the main context of paper. Otherwise, it should be deleted or moved into the supplementary part. As far as the authors fix this, I would suggest acceptance for publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Molecular characterization of the giant freshwater prawn (Macrobrachium rosenbergii) beta-actin gene promoter (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5701v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 9, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
