Review History for The anti-biofilm effect of silver-nanoparticle-decorated quercetin nanoparticles on a multi-drug resistant Escherichia coli strain isolated from a dairy cow with mastitis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The anti-biofilm effect of silver-nanoparticle-decorated quercetin nanoparticles on a multi-drug resistant Escherichia coli strain isolated from a dairy cow with mastitis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 10th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 26th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on September 5th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 10th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Monika Mortimer
·
Sep 10, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for carefully revising your manuscript. You have made the recommended changes and the revised manuscript is clear and understandable. It has been a pleasure working with you and I am looking forward to the publication of your interesting work. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Valeria Souza, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 5, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Monika Mortimer
·
Jul 26, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As you can see in the attached reviews, both reviewers have made substantial comments on your manuscript (be sure to notice the extensive PDF document from Reviewer 2). They specifically outline the need for improving the language. Please consider changing your manuscript according to the Reviewers' suggestions, so it can be further considered for publication.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The language of the article needs to be revised and improved.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript "The anti-biofilm effect of silver nanoparticle-decorated quercetin nanoparticles on a multi-drug resistant Escherichia coli strain isolated from a dairy cow with mastitis" is a continuation of a previous work of the authors and presents interesting findings. However, it must be improved namely in terms of language. Below, you can find my suggestions and comments. Abstract: The authors presented two slightly different abstracts. Please rewrite the abstract more succinctly, taking into account the language. Example: Line39/42: repeated information…rephrase. According to PeerJ journal “Headings in structured abstracts should be bold and followed by a period.” The headings of the abstract are : background, Methods, results and discussion. Keywords: I suggest adding Quercetin and silver nanoparticles (in substitution of nanoparticles). Line 109: “3,3',4',5,7-Pentahydroxyflavone (quercetin, Qe), a kind of flavonoid compound, can be extracted from the flowers, leaves, and fruits of some plants” give some examples. Line 128: “…diluted to a final concentration of 0.03 by optical density at 600 nm” change to: diluted to a final optical density (600 nm) of 0.03. Line 144: “Qe, Ag NPs, or QA NPs were added to the LB medium with 0.5% milk solution and E. coli cells at different concentrations, respectively. Confusing sentence. Rephrase please. Line 145: Why did you not use the same incubation time? Line 176: correct the reference (Miller et al. 1993). Line 209: refer to figure 1C. Line 230/231: Change to: “Meanwhile, biofilms of the Ag NPs treatment group were only in slight surface crack (3C). However, biofilms of the QA NPs treatment group were seriously damaged (Fig. 3D). Line 250/253: sentence too long, please rephrase. Line 266: Reference? Line 267: “…has been used to treat some infectious diseases” Give some examples please or mention if it refers among other infectious diseases to bovine mastitis. Line 270/273: repetition of information. Please review all figures captions (more succinct and objective). They are too long. Graphic 1C: start the y-axis at 0. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "The anti-biofilm effect of silver-nanoparticle-decorated quercetin nanoparticles on a multi-drug resistant Escherichia coli strain isolated from a dairy cow with mastitis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5711v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 25, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
pdf attached Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "The anti-biofilm effect of silver-nanoparticle-decorated quercetin nanoparticles on a multi-drug resistant Escherichia coli strain isolated from a dairy cow with mastitis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5711v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 10, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
