Review History for Young, American Indian or Alaskan Native, and born in the USA: at excess risk of starting extra-medical prescription pain reliever use? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Young, American Indian or Alaskan Native, and born in the USA: at excess risk of starting extra-medical prescription pain reliever use? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 5th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 23rd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on August 29th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 10th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Bob Patton
·
Sep 10, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the revised version. The reviewers felt that you had addressed all of their concerns, however they have suggested that you proof read the final version to check the phrasing of some of your revised content. This will not require a re-submission and can be done while in Production. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Stephen Macknik, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 9, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors have successfully edited the document to provide more clarity.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The design has not been changed and was already acceptable.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Idem. The authors have done a good job in revising and amending the manuscript for clarity, which allows to realize the strengths and limitations of the research.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
While most of the issues have been resolved, the manuscript can be improved by one last editorial revision. Some of the phrases that were added in the newest version read awkward (e.g., page 8, line 190). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Young, American Indian or Alaskan Native, and born in the USA: at excess risk of starting extra-medical prescription pain reliever use? (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5713v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 29, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Bob Patton
·
Jul 23, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for this submission which has been well received by our reviewers. Some minor revisions are required before we can consider your paper for publication.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall, the manuscript reads well, but there are typos, missing words and use of idioms, which take away from the quality of the manuscript, e.g. line 129 ‘Figure 1 shows depicts these…’, line 179 ‘scratch the surface’ and line 189 missing word (selected examples).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
See below.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting manuscript, offering further data and insights into the dire situation in the US of high rates of opioid overdose deaths. I think the focus on sub-populations is very important and perhaps somewhat overlooked in previous work. Whilst the authors briefly discuss the age of the data (some data waves being more than 15 years old) in lines 170 to 174, reading the Introduction, Results and Discussion, might easily leave the impression that this is new data, e.g. line 147: ‘these new annual incidence rates estimates’ and line 143 to 144: ‘this country’s US-born young people…have such large incidence rates…’ (They had in this dataset but do they today?). I would hope that the authors would make this clearer in the Introduction and Discussion. What’s the value of the dataset? It is historic insight, does it apply to the current situation, and if so, how? Minor comments: Lines 39 to 42: Please elaborate as to what you have in mind in regard to ‘targeted prevention initiatives’ and ‘more universal prevention efforts’. Line 42: The meaning of ‘more serious drug involvement’ is not clear. As the authors convincingly argue, opioid overdose deaths are very serious, and hence this sentence comes across as a self-contradiction. Perhaps the authors are referring to PO misuse transitioning into heroin use or use of fentanyl contaminated fake medicines? Line 44: Epidemic of what? Line 47: The meaning of the term ‘hazard-laden’ is not clear. Is it needed considering that the authors provide a good and useable definition of ‘extra-medical’ PPR use? Furthermore, there would be examples of ‘extra-medical’ use that would not be ‘hazard-laden’. Line 51: IBID. Epidemic curve of what? Line 54: Are casualties not the same as fatal overdoses? Line 59: What is meant by ‘have been neglected’? Gap in research and/or treatment? Line 81: Please provide a brief explanation for the use of this dataset (see general comments above). Line 89: Which questions were used to obtain data on PPR use? Line 115: What is the gender distribution in the sample? Distribution according to US regions? Perhaps it would be useful to include a table with descriptive analysis to characterise the sample? Line 142: What is meant by ‘PPR involvement’? Line 178: What is meant by ‘drug involvement’? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Young, American Indian or Alaskan Native, and born in the USA: at excess risk of starting extra-medical prescription pain reliever use? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5713v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 22, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This is an outstanding paper, clearly written, with a enough information and references to provide background support to the authors' decisions.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
This is novel research that, in my opinion, makes the best use of the NSDUH data. Rarely investigators study incidence of drug involvement. This has many advantages because many threats to validity are avoided. The use of a probability sample with appropriate statistical methods are also part of the strengths of this study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The study provides novel and strong new insights to support new research, and the authors offer ideas about potential areas for new studies. The only factor that limits excitement is that the analyses are limited to the period of 2002-2009, and it would be useful to have more recent data. It is not clear why the authors chose this particular period, and the assumptions behind the idea that a replication with a 2010-2017 period should be informative. Clearly, the overdose crisis of PPR has received much more attention in the past years, hopefully modifying the conditions that governed during the 2002-2009 period.
Comments for the author
This is an excellent report. Publication of this article may be useful to support increased resources for programs serving the populations at higher risk identified here. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Young, American Indian or Alaskan Native, and born in the USA: at excess risk of starting extra-medical prescription pain reliever use? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5713v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 5, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
