Review History for Exploration of the involvement of LncRNA in HIV-associated encephalitis using bioinformatics [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Exploration of the involvement of LncRNA in HIV-associated encephalitis using bioinformatics To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 27th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 8th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on August 6th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 11th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ravi Tandon
·
Sep 11, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Meiling, I am pleased to inform that your manuscript entitled "Exploration of the involvement of LncRNA in HIV-associated encephalitis using bioinformatics" has been accepted for the publication after the major revision. Best regards, Ravi Tandon, PhD
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 28, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article in the present form is self explanatory and much clearer than the earlier forms. the authors have clearly tried to implement the suggestions provided by this reviewer to their manuscript.The english has been significantly improved and significant literature to related work has been provided.However kindly address these minor queries =>The HAD in abstract is it same as HAND in the text - please elaborate. => -NMDAR- what is this.(Discussion)
Experimental design
label_ed_1
the research problem has been well presented and all the questions that arose were nicely answered in the discussion part.The novelty of the paper lies in re annotation of microarray data which is nicely highlighted throughout the paper.Indeed a unique paper.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
the paper tries to shed light on the pathogenesis of HIVE.the involvement of different nervous system patways indeed corroborates that the overexpression of lncRNAmay be causing multiple pathway to be unregulated , thus causing HIVE. However ,the authors can also suggest the further research steps to be implemented in the lncrna area
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
overall a good paper in the present shape. =>english can be double checked. usage of 'the' is unwanted in some areas => future prospective can be included => work references of lncrna microarray annonation in other diseases can also be included eg., Guangde Zhang, Haoran Sun, Yawei Zhang, Hengqiang Zhao, Wenjing Fan, Jianfei Li, Yingli Lv, Qiong Song, Jiayao Li, Mingyu Zhang & Hongbo Shi ,(2018)Characterization of dysregulated lncRNA-mRNA network based on ceRNA hypothesis to reveal the occurrence and recurrence of myocardial infarction, Cell Death Discoveryvolume 4, Article number: 35. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Exploration of the involvement of LncRNA in HIV-associated encephalitis using bioinformatics (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5721v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 6, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ravi Tandon
·
Jun 8, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear author, Thank you for submitting to Peer J. Your manuscript was reviewed by three independent reviewers. As you can see, two of the reviewers have raised major concern, while a third has suggested minor revisions. You are therefore advised for Major Revisions as per reviewers comments. Please address the concerns of all 3 reviewers, in particular those of Reviewers 2 and 3. Best Regards Ravi Tandon
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
May 30, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Indeed a good effort of using bioinformatics methods to reassign and shed light on different already existing data of HIV associated encephalopathy. however. this work falls short in concluding any new novel targets or new biomarkers that was discovered in the study. The work only generally lists all the pathways associated with lncRNA .The discussion also excludes the expression level of the 17 lncRNA and thus the importance of which lncRNA should precede the other. Please in ascending or descending order the lncRNAs and their targets genes which affect HIV associated encephalopathy. control, HIV, HIVS, HIVE datasets are some what not discussed in detail once the differential expression is found
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings using webbased applications are indeed correlating with many references mentioned in the discussion however if finding the pathogenesis of HIV associated encephalopathy is the aim of the work, then the broad results do not allow to shed light on the role of lncRNA in HIV associated encephalopathy. Thus I suggest that the authors rank their finding , it may be the genes or the pathways , but ranking can certainly help in shedding light on the the role of lncRNAS in disease. like the reference paper Zhang C, Wang C, Jia Z, et al. Differentially expressed mRNAs, lncRNAs, and miRNAs with associated co-expression and ceRNA networks in ankylosing spondylitis. Oncotarget. 2017;8(69):113543-113557. doi:10.18632/oncotarget.22708. give clear target genes for spondylitis. I suggest the authors use this paper as a standard as their works are similar.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Figure 3 can be made more clearer Some references are cited asnumbers in the text while others as author names. stick to one. Table 3 with an obscure pvalue is not discussed in text English language can be checked for errors. Hive abbreviation used both for disease as well as dataset is confusing sometimes. Figure 2 says normal as a dataset instead of control Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Exploration of the involvement of LncRNA in HIV-associated encephalitis using bioinformatics (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5721v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
May 31, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article "Explorations of the involvement of LncRNA in the occurrence and development of HIV-associated encephalitis using bioinformatics" have using publicly available data for suggest the involvement on LncRNA in the HIV-associated encephalitis. The presentation in the paper too low on the concept and association with the earlier literature. Though the authors have mentioned that lncRNA have been found to be associated with the pathogenesis of HIV but failed to mention the motive behind the whole work. It can considered that apart from lncRNA there could be several other factors and there is no basis of considering only lncRNA for HIVE until it is proven in that context. The English is satisfactory though at some place ambiguous. In introduction the author failed to explain the background of the work. The table are mere mention the list without any detailing in the text which may have helped in some relevant conclusion. The authors failed to connect any specific finding with any results.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Though the research question was well defined but the authors failed explain the methodology clearly. In the methodology section the authors have not mentioned the methodology to find the exact method of their finding. Even though the data is found on the public database but that also require the statistical testing which is not mentioned in the section. Also GO statistics is not explained to validate the outcome of the experiment. the data in the public databases are raw and worked out in varied circumstances hence one cannot merely combine data to reach to a general conclusion. Due to high variability and varied platforms one may get high degree of variation which may influence the overall results. Hence the author should have used and mentioned the statistical approach to explain and bring the data to common platform for statistical analysis.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Since the methodology and not very elaborated and well explained hence one cannot rely on the finding of the data. In absence of any concrete results, all the finding seems to be too generalized and does not provide any basis for specific finding. Statistics not explained. Conclusions are too general for any significant findings. The conclusion provided does not connect to previous findings.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Exploration of the involvement of LncRNA in HIV-associated encephalitis using bioinformatics (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5721v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_4
Reviewer 3 ·
Jun 6, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_4
The manuscript is fairly easy to read in the most parts. Some major writing issues are: (1) Multiple times the authors use description such as "differentially expressed probes were screened out" to state that genes represented by certain probes were selected. Their choice of words like "screened out" is confusing as that may imply that probes were left out. (2) The Result section simply lists what is described in figures or simply state the approach once again. The authors do not provide any reasoning/motivation for why a particular analysis was carried out, why did they choose particular datasets and tools etc. Also, there is lot of repetition in Results and Discussion section. For example, the lines 190-215 simply restate what ahs already been said in the results section. This can be clearly seen when results from lines 138-148 are reiterated again in Discussion on lines 197-200 in a very similar manner. As pointed above, the second half the discussion has a clear disconnect with findings of the paper. Discussion should focus more on what the authors think the relevance of their results is in the context of existing knowledge. (3) The heatmaps in Figure 1 are not labeled at all. There is no way to tell what different rows in the heatmaps are representing. What is represented by red and blue colors? What are the scales for the heatmaps? Were the genes shown here clustered in any way?
Experimental design
label_ed_4
Overall, the research question is clearly defined, is meaningful and should fill a knowledge gap. The most important issue is that there is no rationale/reasoning provided as to the connection between differentially regulated lncRNAs, miRNAs targeting them, and mRNA targets of these miRNA. The authors should discuss why/how change in expression of lncRNAs may be linked to activity of miRNAs that target lncRNAs and mRNAs. The discussion lists several pathways and processes that are important for neural function and disease but the authors do not discuss how the lncRNAs they identified to be differentially expressed can be affecting these processes. Also, is there a reason why lncRNAs may be more differentially expressed in white matter as compared to frontal cortex or basal ganglia? Is there anything known about heightened lncRNA function in the white matter?
Validity of the findings
Important issues to address: (1) Appropriate statistical evaluation of overlaps between differentially expressed genes in different samples in Figure 1 is missing. (2) How lncRNA expression changes in white matter can be linked to HIVE is not clear.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Exploration of the involvement of LncRNA in HIV-associated encephalitis using bioinformatics (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5721v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 27, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
