Review History for Alcohol consumption and sleep deprivation among Ghanaian adults: Ghana Demographic and Health Survey [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Alcohol consumption and sleep deprivation among Ghanaian adults: Ghana Demographic and Health Survey To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 5th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 3rd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on September 12th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 14th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Bob Patton
·
Sep 14, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your re-submitted manuscript. You have clearly addressed the minor concerns of both reviewers, There are a couple of typographical errors, however these may be addressed at the proof stage.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 12, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Bob Patton
·
Aug 3, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for your submission. Your paper requires some revisions to your introduction / review of the literature, and careful proof reading throughout. We look forward to receiving a revised version in due course.
label_author_1
Ogochukwu Odeigah ·
Jul 25, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1. The introduction needs more detail. I suggest you develop lines 243-257 further for the introduction by reviewing sleep and alcohol studies conducted in Sub Saharan Africa countries. 2. Line 72-80: You provide information from a wide range of contexts. I suggest that you extrapolate on the effect and costs of alcohol related sleep disorders in Ghana as well. 3. There appears to be a contradiction in line 95-96 compared with your description of sleep studies in these regions in lines 243-252 4. Line 95-96, 282- 284. This assertion might be accurate for Ghana but not ‘in an African setting’. Several studies have explored alcohol and sleep in sub Saharan Africa for example in Nigeria. Consider conducting a literature review beyond Ghana, or restrict the argument in this section to Ghana. 5. Consider your use of acronyms by spelling them out at first use. 6. The English language should be improved. Consider rephrasing lines, 30, 72, 112, 172, 151, 200, 259, 261, 267, 294, 295. 7. Consider making available a link to the public DHS data.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
'No comment'
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Limit your discussion in line 270-272, to those supported by the results. Provide a link to the original DHS data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a preliminary study in the right direction. I commend the authors for identifying and acknowledging the various limitations in the study and providing direction for further studies. Cite this review as
Odeigah O ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Alcohol consumption and sleep deprivation among Ghanaian adults: Ghana Demographic and Health Survey (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5750v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The English language should be improved to ensure that an international audience can clearly understand your text. Some examples where the language could be improved include the abstract :In this study investigated whether current alcohol consumption has any influence on sleeping hours among adult men and women in Ghana" – the current phrasing makes comprehension difficult. Some citations were wrongly attributed, e.g. According to World Health 94 Organization estimates, Sub Saharan Africa (SSA) ranks among the regions with highest per capita consumption of alcohol in the world(Onwuka et al., 2016). It would make sense to cite the original WHO document where this information can be found. Also reference no 1. was wrongly stated. My PUBMED Search revealed that the correct citation is: Barrett PR, Horne JA, Reyner LA.Alcohol continues to affect sleepiness related driving impairment, when breath alcohol levels have fallen to near-zero.Hum Psychopharmacol. 2004 Aug;19(6):421-3. Also reference no. 2 is supposed to be: Wasielewski JA and Holloway, FA. Alcohol’s Interactions With Circadian Rhythms: A Focus on Body Temperature. Bethesda, MD, United States: National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Original primary research within Aims and Scope of the journal. Research question well defined, relevant & meaningful. It is stated how research fills an identified knowledge gap The research question is not well defined. Please state the research question.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Your references do not meet the journal format. Also some of your references lack basic information even when they have been updated in PUBMED. Please go through all of your references and format very well. Your manuscript would required the assistance of a native English speaker to improve the language structure. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Alcohol consumption and sleep deprivation among Ghanaian adults: Ghana Demographic and Health Survey (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5750v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 5, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
