Review History for Analysis of adult damselfly fecal material aids in the estimation of antibiotic-resistant Enterobacterales contamination of the local environment [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Analysis of adult damselfly fecal material aids in the estimation of antibiotic-resistant Enterobacterales contamination of the local environment To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 10th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 2nd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on September 14th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 17th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Sep 17, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Yamaguchi and colleagues: Thanks for revising your manuscript based on the minor concerns raised by the reviewers. I now believe that your manuscript is suitable for publication. Congratulations! I look forward to seeing this work in print, and I anticipate it being an important resource for communities studying the impact of the antibiotic-resistant Enterobacterales in local environments, as well researchers on damselflies. Thanks again for choosing PeerJ to publish such important work. Best, -joe # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Siouxsie Wiles, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 14, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Aug 2, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Yamaguchi and colleagues: Thanks for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. I have now received two independent reviews of your work, and as you will see, both are very favorable. Well done! Nonetheless, both reviewers raised some relatively minor concerns about the research, and areas where the manuscript can be improved. I agree with the reviewers, and thus feel that their concerns should be adequately addressed before moving forward. Therefore, I am recommending that you revise your manuscript accordingly, taking into account all of the issues raised by the reviewers. I do believe that your manuscript will be ready for publication once these issues are addressed. Good luck with your revision, -joe
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 27, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript can be shortened. There are currently unnecessary repetition and redundancies.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Experimental design is basically appropriate. However, I cannot understand why bacteria grown on SCD agar with an antibiotic were environmental bacteria.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This manuscript contains unique and interesting observation concerning antimicrobial resistant bacteria in environments and their monitoring procedure.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Line 38-41: Gut bacteria and environmental bacteria are in reverse order. Line 250-251: The authors say that "Although there were no obvious differences in the MIC ranges between the sampling sites". However, MIC90 for KAN and CIP of bacteria derived from Shinoroshinkawa is very high. This seems to be obvious. Figure 5 and Table S1: I cannot understand "SCD-Antibiotics" and "Mc-antibiotics". Do these mean that bacterial growth was observed on agar plate containing either antibiotic? Furthermore, I cannot understand "SCD-MC-all antibiotics". Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Analysis of adult damselfly fecal material aids in the estimation of antibiotic-resistant Enterobacterales contamination of the local environment (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5755v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 2, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Need to add more background information especially in introduction section
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Comments: The paper describes the prevalence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, including Enterobacterales, in fecal material damselflies (adults and larvae) collected from seven locations around Sapporo City, Japan. This is a well-written manuscript and a thorough and well-designed study. Few typological and grammatical errors are present that need to be corrected. In terms of bacterial identification, a wide range of API identification cut-off value have been considered which usually raise the question of accurate identification of the isolates. It would be therefore highly accepted if it is possible to confirm the bacteria species using 16S rRNA sequencing of the pure isolates. Introduction The introduction is comprehensive and well written, provides all the required background. Line 75-77: “This approach …and urban planners” is not relevant to the context of the study. May delete it. Line 79-81: Please add more justification why Damselflies could be good indicator of antibiotic resistant bacteria that have potential to infect human and animals. Materials and methods Line 95: What was the basis of choosing these antibiotics. Would be great if the can mention it. Line 99: Delete period (.) after sample collection. Line 101: what are the distances among all seven locations? I can see it is mentioned in results sections. Please bring it here. Are there any environmental variations among the locations? Please explain it. Fig 2. “Prevalence of different damselfly species at each sampling site”. Prevalence will not be the right word to use here. What sampling techniques have been used to determine the prevalence? Please explain if do so.. Line 129: Why do incubate at 25o C temperature? Enterobacteriales usually grow at a wide rage of temperature. There might be a possiblily of missing the bacteria that grow above 30o C temperature. Line 131: Some Enterobacterales are naturally resistant to tetracycline or ampicillin. Therefore, how logical it is to consider these isolates as antibiotic resistant bacteria. Please explain it. Line 136-137: What cut off value was used to identify the bacterial species using an API 20E kit? Please mention it. As far I can see in table S2, a wide range of cut-off value have been chosen to identify the bacteria which raise the question of accurate identification of the Enterobacteriales species. Line 149: What alignment technique was used in phylogenetic tree construction? Please mention it. Line 153-154: “the prevalence of bacteria on SCD-A, the prevalence of bacteria on MacConkey-A”. The authors have not explained how they have determined the prevalence of bacteria on these media plates? Is it prevalence or only presence? Please explain it and correct it throughout the manuscript. Results: Line 178-187: I think, this information has already mentioned in materials and methods. Please rewrite the paragraph without repetition of information. Some information might go in materials and methods. Line 187-193: In my opinion, the author hasn’t determined the prevalence of Damselfly in this study. Therefore, please replace the word “prevalence” with other appropriate words such as “dominant”. Discussion: Discussion is clear and well-written. However, the author should focus also on the importance of the Enterobacteriales isolated from the damselfly. The author should add another paragraph describing briefly the importance of these bacteria identified in this study. The author should also describe the potential role of damselfly in spreading human important Enterobateriales as damselflies focally and domestically inhabit areas with minimal migration. Conclusion: Conclusion is well-written Figures and tables: Table S2: It can be shown in table 2S that many bacterial species have been identified at below 70% API identification cut-off level. I wonder how accurate the identification of these isolates as most of the Enterobacteriales species are closely related. Need more clarification on results. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Analysis of adult damselfly fecal material aids in the estimation of antibiotic-resistant Enterobacterales contamination of the local environment (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5755v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 10, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
