Review History for Evolution of African barbs from the Lake Victoria drainage system, Kenya [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evolution of African barbs from the Lake Victoria drainage system, Kenya To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 26th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 25th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on September 13th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 17th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jane Hughes
·
Sep 17, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I think the authors have satisfactorily addressed the issues raised by reviewers and the paper is now suitable for publication. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Rob Toonen, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 13, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jane Hughes
·
Jul 25, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Two reviewers have recommended that this paper should be considered for publication after minor revision. I agree with them. However, please consider very seriously each of the reviewer comments, in particular reviewer 1's comments about the fact that you found no introgression while an earlier study did. this seems strange. Also please address the order of your objectives in the introduction and discussion and make them consistent.also please note that reviewer 2 has attached ah annotated PDF with further suggestions. [# PeerJ Staff Note: It is PeerJ policy that additional references suggested during the peer-review process should only be included if the authors are in agreement that they are relevant and useful #]
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall this paper follows a standard approach to addressing phylogenetic questions and it mostly does a good job. The writing is mostly clear and easy to follow. The two limitations to the study are having only two genes, but a 3-5 years ago this would have been quite good! The second is the sampling is a little bit limited, but it builds on some broader previous work, thus it is able to related their results back to the broader picture of Barbus in that region of Africa. My one larger question that I feel the paper has not addressed is why did previous studies, especially Schmidt et al find so much introgression, including in samples from your study region, yet you did not? You don’t really discuss this point much, although you do emphasise that you didn’t find introgression, but Schmidt did. Are these species often sympatric? Any study can get some identifications incorrect, but presumably they can’t all be wrong? (I didn’t look at Schmidt et al, but presume they found discordance between mitochondrial and nuclear DNA results? If so, suggested identifications are ok if nuclear markers normally were consistent with their identifications). Presumably the introgression is older, rather than ongoing today? If so the contrast in your findings is perhaps a bit odd. I don’t know what the answers are, but you should include some discussion of this incongruence between your studies. Most of my more minor comments are below in the order they appear in the manuscript. Introduction Line 48, approx. how many species of barbs / cyprinids in Africa? You do mention a number lower down, but I’m left wondering for a little bit. Line 77 and 81, barb, not barbs (fix in the abstract too) Line 118, rewrite sentence to improve English Methods Why was Catostomidae used as an outgroup initially? Is that based on some previous phylogenetic work that suggest they are sister groups? How did you deal with heterozygous positions in growth hormone? I presume you used standard ambiguity codes? Should mention this. You have not mentioned how you calculated your K2P distances anywhere. Results and Discussion You should align your main objectives at the end of the introduction (line 123) with the order that you present them in the discussion (or visa versa). For instance, your first key objective listed is the last one you address in the discussion. You don’t provide the models chosen by partionfinder or jmodeltest for either gene, you also don’t give any indication of what partition schemes you explored under partition finder, did you try it by codon position, or just a single partition? I eventually see that you included these details in Table 1, make it clearer in line 184 what is in Table 1, i.e., best models found and partition schemes tested are provided in Table 1. When you present some of your K2P distances, I think you are off by one decimal place, e.g., line 222, Maximum Cytb divergence within this clade was 0.39% (K2P), this should be 3.9% I think. The scale bar on the tree is 0.04, which is equivalent to 4% sequence divergence. Line 257, max. within clade divergence = 0.59% K2P. I don’t think this statement is correct, there is almost no within clade divergence in ‘B.’ profundus. I think you mean between clade divergence to it’s nearest sister group perhaps? Unclear. Line 278, make it clear at the start which gene you are talking about, you currently just say haplotype. How can you be sure that the Schmidt specimen is misidentified vs introgressed? BTW, it should be RAxML, in many cases you have written RaxML which is what word autocorrects it to. Shouldn’t start a sentence with an abbreviated genus, spell it out in full. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evolution of African barbs from the Lake Victoria drainage system, Kenya (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5762v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jonathan Armbruster ·
Jul 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Clear language – yes Intro and background to show context, literature well referenced: Yes Structure conforms to PeerJ – yes Figures relevant, high quality, etc. – mostly. The map figure needs work. I don’t know why the lake is a different color. Many of the river lines do not connect? Are they endorheic or is something missing in the GIS layer? Raw data supplied: yes
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Original research in scope – yes Research question well defined – yes Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical and ethical standard – yes Methods described in sufficient detail – yes
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Impact and novelty – largely a continuation of other small barb studies, but a welcome contribution to an area of the taxonomy that has not been well-studied. Data is robust: yes Conclusions well stated – yes
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a good paper that continues the work on the small barbs of Africa. It is well done, and a welcome addition to the literature of the group. I have made some comments and suggestions throughout the pdf. That said, the use of ‘Barbus’ is outdated. True Barbus is not even in the same tribe as the African ‘Barbus’. The only group still potentially advocating for ‘Barbus’ is Schmidt and Bart, and I even reviewed a paper by them recently using Enteromius. This is also confusing because, at one time, Labeobarbus was also referred to as Barbus in quotation marks and it is in yet another tribe as Barbus and Enteromius. The African Small Barbs will never be Barbus, and continuing to refer to them as such when there is a valid alternative is going backwards, not forwards. Not only is the use of Barbus in quotation marks backwards, the typesetting of it is difficult as well demonstrated in this paper. The Barbus part is supposed to be in italics, but the quotes are not. Other technical issues include: you have to spell out the genus name when using ‘sp.’ and the sp. is not to be italicized. The species listed as cf. guirali is probably aspilus. We did not find the two in the same clade, but they are easily confused. Make sure that you consult with Vreven et al. (2016) about Labeobarbus and Skelton et al (2018) about Pseudobarbus. Also note that these two reviews of African barbs by the top systematists working on African cypriniforms use Enteromius. The map also needs some work. The lake should be the same color as the rivers, and it looks like at least some of the rivers that do not connect into anything are likely not endorheic. Jon Armbruster Skelton, P. H., E. R. Swartz and E. J. Vreven 2018 (2 Mar.) [ref. 35835] See ref. online The identity of Barbus capensis Smith, 1841 and the generic status of southern African tetraploid cyprinids (Teleostei, Cyprinidae). European Journal of Taxonomy No. 410: 1-29. Vreven, E. J. W. M. N., T. Musschoot, J. Snoeks, and U. K. Schliewen. 2016. The African hexaploid Torini (Cypriniformes: Cyprinidae): review of a tumultuous history. Zoological Journal of the Linnean Society 177:231–305. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Armbruster JW ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Evolution of African barbs from the Lake Victoria drainage system, Kenya (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5762v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 26, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
