Review History for Factors associated with leisure time physical inactivity in black individuals: hierarchical model [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Factors associated with leisure time physical inactivity in black individuals: hierarchical model To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 20th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 12th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on August 23rd, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 25th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
C. Robert Cloninger
·
Aug 25, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the responsive revision. The paper is accepted with a minor edit of the last sentence, adding the subject "we" to the main sentence: "Moreover, although we found an association between physical activity and violence, WE suggest future studies that investigate the relationship between these variables [CAPS added for attention, not to be printed so]."
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 23, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
C. Robert Cloninger
·
Aug 12, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers have rightly pointed out places in which you could improve the writing somewhat. Most importantly, you have only explained a small amount of variance so you need to describe what you have overlooked to guide future work. Also please explain why you are analyzing data collected 7 years ago and what impact the old age of the data may have for future research.
label_author_1
Ada Zohar ·
Jul 29, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The study reported in this paper is quite impressive, in aims, scope and methodology. The writing is fine, except for a few minor errors and typos. The results are disappointing, since such a small part of the LTPI variance was explained by the independent variables measured. I would recommend extending the discussion to speculate on what may be more influential variables. Could it be that person variables (such as personality or subjective health) have greater explanatory power? Possibly the authors have other thoughts on this matter, and it would make the paper more interesting.The reader is left without a sense of where the research should head now.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Just to polish the manuscript there are a few places in the paper where two words are merged together without a space; in one place "anos" appears instead of "years". Cite this review as
Zohar AH ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Factors associated with leisure time physical inactivity in black individuals: hierarchical model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.577v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Keith Wood ·
Aug 11, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The title of the article could potentially be more descriptive of the study by adding that the individuals live in Brazil or in a single city in Brazil. There are some statements that are difficult to understand on multiple readings. I have made annotations at these areas. Figures are overall well done.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The method of selection and efforts taken to collect a representative sample were adequate. It seems that the IPAQ was used to account for general physical activity level although it only appears to question activities over the previous 7 days which could lead to some error in reporting overall physical activity. Methods were descriptive.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The conclusions are well supported by the data. The results seem to conform with prior studies. It is not entirely clear what new information this particular study might add to the existing literature. The investigating the relationship between perceived violence and physical activity appears novel and is something that would be interesting to learn more about in future studies.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
There are some minor errors in spelling a grammar that can be easily addressed. Given the scope and broadness of the subject matter, I felt that the study was reported adequately overall. Note: Annotations were done in Preview for Apple OS X so formatting issues may make them show up different if opened in a different program. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Wood K ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Factors associated with leisure time physical inactivity in black individuals: hierarchical model (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.577v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 20, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
