Review History for Case based rubella surveillance in Abia State, South East Nigeria, 2007–2011 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Case based rubella surveillance in Abia State, South East Nigeria, 2007–2011 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 3rd, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 27th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on August 20th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 26th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Nicola Decaro
·
Aug 26, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
No more revisions are needed
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 20, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Nicola Decaro
·
Aug 27, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please, pay particular attention to the reviewer 1's concerns
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 27, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This study is an epidemiological report of rubella cases in the Abia State in Nigeria, as diagnosed by IgM testing on rash cases in the national laboratory. This follows the WHO guidelines for rubella diagnosis and reporting. The article is written clearly, but I have a number of minor comments: 1) The introduction may benefit by adding some context on vaccination and incidence of rubella in the rest of Nigeria. 2) CRS is mentioned throughout the paper and the authors should report what is the known or estimated incidence of CRS births in Nigeria, or whether CRS is systematically reported or not in Nigeria. 3) Line 52. I would like to ask the authors to substitute “burden” with a more neutral term (e.g. portion or percentage) to describe the young population.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This study is a simple epidemiological report of rubella cases diagnosed in Abia State, Nigeria. 4) Please add what kit was used for the ELISA test. This is a detail of interest for the international rubella community.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
5) This is my most important comment. The interest of this study is diminished by the fact that we don’t know how many cases of rubella go undiagnosed. The authors say on line 99 that the real incidence could be more than twice than reported, and this is kind of a vague statement (3 times? 100 times?). Using the rate of rubella IgG seroprevalence in adult women reported in line 118 (53-77%) the authors should estimate the real incidence of rubella in Abia and give the readers a measure of the significance of the incidence reported in this study. Maybe the discussion then will be refocused on how many cases are missed, rather than how many are detected. 6) The interpretation of the results would benefit from some statistical analysis. For example, is the difference between males and females statistically significant? Is the incidence of rubella really different in the country compared to the cities? 7) In table 1, the authors noted a change in % of IgM+ rash cases. Can the authors comment on what was the diagnosis of the other cases? Were there measles outbreaks that would account for year-toyear variations? 8) Lines 94-95. Screening of pregnant women for rubella IgM is not recommended by WHO because of the possibility of false positives. Surely, this must be the case for a fraction of the IgM+ of the studies cited here. The authors should comment on this point.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Case based rubella surveillance in Abia State, South East Nigeria, 2007–2011 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.580v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 26, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The present manuscript entitled “The epidemiology of new rubella infections in Abia state, South East Nigeria” describes the prevalence of IgM antibodies by ELISA (therefore new infections) raised against Rubella in Abia State, Nigeria. The authors tested by c-ELISA 757 serum samples collected between 2007 and 2011 from human patient presenting febrile rash. They demonstrated that Rubella actively circulates in Abia state with new confirmed cases every year.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors tested by ELISA the presence of IgM antibodies in 757 serum samples. In my opinion they should enlarge the study by including the neutralizing Abs (IgG) titres of women and perform by dedicate tools a proper risk analysis for fetal infection. No statistical analysis has been performed. Is there any significant statistical difference of Rubella incidence within the years included in the survey? Similar results were also obtained in other surrounding countries? No cases of fetal malformation have been reported. Is that true? As I said before, IgG titres by serum neutralization would donate a big value to the manuscript. The authors should reasonaby acknowledge that the effort spent in the study is somehow poor.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Findings are not surprising and the manuscript would benefit by inclyding the IgG titres.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The present manuscript entitled “The epidemiology of new rubella infections in Abia state, South East Nigeria” describes the prevalence of IgM antibodies by ELISA (therefore new infections) raised against Rubella in Abia State, Nigeria. The authors tested by c-ELISA 757 serum samples collected between 2007 and 2011 from human patient presenting febrile rash. They demonstrated that Rubella actively circulates in Abia state with new confirmed cases every year.In my opinion they should enlarge the study by including the neutralizing Abs (IgG) titres of women and perform by dedicate tools a proper risk analysis for fetal infection. No statistical analysis has been performed. Is there any significant statistical difference of Rubella incidence within the years included in the survey? Similar results were also obtained in other surrounding countries? No cases of fetal malformation have been reported. Is that true? As I said before, IgG titres by serum neutralization would donate a big value to the manuscript. The authors should reasonaby acknowledge that the effort spent in the study is somehow poor.Findings are not surprising and the manuscript would benefit by inclyding the IgG titres. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Case based rubella surveillance in Abia State, South East Nigeria, 2007–2011 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.580v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Cristina Figueiredo ·
Aug 19, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Manuscript entitled " The epidemiology of new rubella infections in Abia state, South East Nigeriawhich you submitted to PPJ has been reviewed. In this manuscript, authors report their study of confirmed cases of rubella in Abia state Nigeria from 2007 to 2011 detected through Abia state Integrated Disease Surveillance and Response system. The study is interesting and could provide valuable information of the rubella virus infection . Further details of the followings should be provided and clarified: 1-The title should be more specific and well correlated with content. 2- Introduction: Line: 18: Rubella is an acute contagious viral infection that usually affects children and young adults. It is amild self-limited illness that presents with fever, maculopapular rash, malaise and mild conjunctivitis. Definition of rubella diseases do not include conjunctivitis. Please ad the phrase: Rubella virus (RV) is a highly infectious and teratogenic agent. Rubella virus infection during the first trimester of pregnancy may lead to fetal death or various birth defects, including deafness, cataracts, and heart disease, known as congenital rubella syndrome (CRS) [Hobman and Chantler,2007].
Experimental design
label_ed_3
3- Material and Methods: Line 68: and rubella immunoglobulin G (IgM) antibodies using enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Wich? Siemens??? add to text. 4- The results was not structured properly. Table 1, 2 and 3 should be combined, which may improve clearness 5- Discussion: vaccination should be mentioned and the necessary measures for the control of rubella in the city. 5- The paper must be rewritten in grammatical English with the help of a native English speaking-scientist or scientific English editing service:
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No comments
Comments for the author
The paper must be approved after corrections. Cite this review as
Figueiredo C ( 2014 ) Peer Review #3 of "Case based rubella surveillance in Abia State, South East Nigeria, 2007–2011 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.580v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 3, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
