Review History for Enhancement of a protocol purifying T1 lipase through molecular approach [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Enhancement of a protocol purifying T1 lipase through molecular approach To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 8th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 22nd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on September 26th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 27th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Sep 27, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing all critical points raised by the reviewers and for corresponding amendments of the manuscript. The revised version is acceptable now. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Pedro Silva, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 26, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Aug 22, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address all the queries of both reviewers and amend your manuscript accordingly.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 20, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors used cleat language to describe their design rationales. Figures are well labeled and described, the main text is well referenced.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Methods are described in detail.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are valid with robust data presentation.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The purification of GST-tagged T1 lipases suffered from low yield and cumbersome 3-step purification steps. Using rational design, the authors changed the PI value of the GST tag and shortened the purification to two steps, thereby increasing the overall yield quite significantly. This is a very nice showcase of the power of rational design to improve protein engineering, and fits well with the theme of this journal. I highly support its publication if the following minor concerns can be addressed satisfactorily: •Line 219, the subheading should be changed to be more informative. •Figures 1 and 2 are not significant enough to be in the main text, I recommend moving to the supplements. •Supplemental figures are missing figure captions. I recommend moving supp. Fig. 1 to the main text since it very nicely shows the overall workflow of this paper. •Figures 3-5, the gel images should show better contrast for better readability. Lines with different colors should be labeled in the figure legends. •On a similar note, font sizes on the X- and Y- axis in the panel (a) of Figures 3-5 should be increased. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Enhancement of a protocol purifying T1 lipase through molecular approach (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5833v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 21, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I think the figure displaying in the paper is not so satisfying, some figures have occupied too much space while providing limited information. Like Figure 2, which I think can be moved to the supplementary data.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This manuscript depicted a new protocol for T1 Lipase purification by mutating the GST tag. The English language used throughout the context is clear and professional. The experiments are well designed and right conclusions are obtained. The idea of changing the PI value of GST tag to improve the purifying process will provide new information for this field. However, I have some concerns about this paper. 1.Since the purification of T1 Lipase is a well-established method, this paper should put more emphasis on the comparison between the traditional method and the modified one. For example, in the result part, the difference between two strategies should be discussed in detail. And in table 2, why the data of GST-T1 Lipase was adopted from a published paper instead of your own data? I think it will be more persuasive to use your own data. 2.As far as I know, peptides can be separated using RP-HPLC based on their hydrophobic character. If this is the case, T1 Lipase will still be able to get purified from GST without mutating the tag. What do you think is the advantage of IEC over RP-HPLC for Lipase purification? 3.In Figure3-4, there are multiple lanes for the same sample, what’s the difference between them? Parallel samples? It should be stated clearly in the figure legend. 4.In Figure4, though there was some GST eluted together with T1 Lipase, the yield of T1 Lipase still looks pretty high; the yield should be stated with WT GST. 5.Quality of gel image is low in Figure3 and Figure4, the ladder is smear. 6.Figure 2 can be listed in supplementary data. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Enhancement of a protocol purifying T1 lipase through molecular approach (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5833v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 8, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
