Review History for Remote sensing pipeline for tree segmentation and classification in a mixed softwood and hardwood system [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Remote sensing pipeline for tree segmentation and classification in a mixed softwood and hardwood system To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 4th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 2nd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on September 20th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 28th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alison Boyer
·
Sep 28, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for revising your paper and improving it in light of the reviews. I anticipate that this paper will be of interest not only to the remote sensing community but also to data-minded ecologists. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Dezene Huber, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 20, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alison Boyer
·
Aug 2, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This paper is well-written and clear. The reviewers and I have only a few suggestions to improve the title and to fix a few acronyms in the text. Please respond to the reviewers suggestions.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is relatively well-written and provides a nice context to the study. The manuscript can benefit from additional review on what has been done to establish such pipeline in the past (such as Kershaw et al., 2016; White et al., 2016; Hyyppä et al, 2012; van Leeuwen et al., 2010;).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methods are well-described in most cases, except for omission of some minor details (please see general comments below). It seems “maxima search” involved lots of visual evaluations before an appropriate set of parameters is arrived upon. Is there any way to present this process in more detail either in the methods or in the results section, so that readers know what exactly is involved in this process and this can be replicated?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The whole 'pipeline' required a lot of manual tweaking of the parameters, especially the NDVI/height thresholds and parameters used for local maxima. I am concerned that the pipeline presented here might have limited applicability beyond the current data and study area. The results section can be improved. For example, in section 3.1, the author provided only an overall J score, but it gives no indication as to how the algorithm performed across trees of different sizes (crown, height) or species. The alignment was evaluated using RMSE and yet the RMSE values (overall or for different tree sizes/species) were not provided. The classification accuracies of different species were also not provided. The discussion section is also weak. The author assumes that segmentation/ classification is major challenge in the remote sensing community because most participants did not perform well. Over the last two decades, the science of image segmentation/classification has matured enough, and I think the poor performance was solely because none of the participants used industry-standard approaches such as OBIA (e.g. Blaschke et al). The manuscript could benefit from additional comparison of the methods/results against previous tree segmentation/classification literatures (please refer to Zhen et al., 2016 or Blaschke, 2010 for overview)
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
- The title of the paper should highlight the core content of manuscript. It should be self-descriptive on its own, independent of other manuscripts submitted as part of the challenge. - Lines 50-54: Are there appropriate citations of these data sets? If so, please cite them accordingly - Line 55: State the full form of DSM, and that they are used to compute the canopy height model referred elsewhere in the manuscript - Line 68. For clarity, please refer “the cloud” to something like “the point cloud derived from the raster pixels” - Line 76: “landcover” to “land covered” - Line 79: Mention that maxima search was done on NDVI-filtered LiDAR CHM. Also, briefly describe what the TreeTopFinder() does. (Popescu and Wynne, 2004?) - Line 89: Briefly describe what segmentation algorithm SegmentCrowns() implements - Lines 131-139: State how many structural and how many spectral parameters in total were used for PCA. - Lines 160-162: Can the author also show how the relationship was when the crown height was also included? - Line 203. Can the author elaborate what specific problem? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Remote sensing pipeline for tree segmentation and classification in a mixed softwood and hardwood system (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5837v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 25, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a well written manuscript. I enjoyed reading it. The author provided a good background to the problems investigated and used good illustrations to highlight the findings of the study. The data used in this study are publicly available (NEON and the data science competition).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The study has a clear design and the dataset and methods are explained in detail.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The segmentation method did not perform well, but the author acknowledged that this remains a challenge in the remote sensing field. The alignment and classification results are promising. The author’s conclusions are grounded in the results presented.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
It was a pleasure to read the manuscript – good structure, clear explanations, and relevant background provided. I only have a small set of minor editing suggestions for the author. Is the spelling LIDAR the most common one? I’ve seen mostly LiDAR and lidar in the literature. Title: it might be good to make the title a bit more specific (for readers looking for papers on remote sensing and tree identification) Abstract: spell out the acronyms (NIST, DSE, NDVI, LIDAR, PCA); replace “compete in the competition” with “participate in the competition” Background: Line 20: use plural of aircraft Line 38: spell out NIST DSE Line 42: insert comma after “tasks” Line 45: remove word repetition (“provided”) Methods: In 2.1: clarify which datasets are hyperspectral and which lidar; spell out DSM Line 60: insert “(CHM)” after “canopy height model” Line 68: spell out NDVI Line 79: insert “R” before “package” In Equation (2) is x the CHM value? Line 81: reword “no ground points were” Line 118: replace “predicated” with “predicted” Discussion: Line 202: Is (Dalponte and Gianelle) a citation? If yes, add year. If not, provide the name of the team mentioned here. Conclusion: Line 231: insert “data science” before “competition” Figure 1 caption: spell out CHM Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Remote sensing pipeline for tree segmentation and classification in a mixed softwood and hardwood system (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5837v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 4, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
