Review History for Culture-independent detection and characterisation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and M. africanum in sputum samples using shotgun metagenomics on a benchtop sequencer [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Culture-independent detection and characterisation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and M. africanum in sputum samples using shotgun metagenomics on a benchtop sequencer To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 14th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 28th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on August 28th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 28th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jonathan Eisen
·
Aug 28, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for the rapid revisions. Looks like you addressed all the comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 28, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jonathan Eisen
·
Aug 28, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers are quite positive about the manuscript and in recommend accepting it. One of them has some relatively minor issues that they recommend be addressed and the other points out mostly small text suggestions. I am therefore recommending this as a "minor" revision. Please provide a response to their comments.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 20, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I think more information (in supplementary data) should be provided about the pplacer results in Figure S1- see comments under validity below.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This manuscript describes a proof of principle of direct sequencing (by MiSeq) of M. tuberculosis genomes using DNA extracted from smear positive sputa in Africa, comparing results with spoligotyping of cultured strains from the same specimens. Informative metagenomic sequence was generated from seven of the eight specimens tested. SNP phylogenetic placement against reference genomes placed these isolates in the same lineage groups as found by spoligotyping of the corresponding isolates. Bioinformatic analysis of IS6110 insertions allowed supportive IS6110 typing for three specimens. The conclusion that the authors have shown that shotgun metagenomics can provide diagnostically and phylogenetically useful data in cases of smear positive clinical tuberculosis without DNA amplification or specific capture is justified. Minor points I would like to see more information provided on the following: 1. Sample K6, which was the only one not to provide lineage specific data, had the largest percentage of reads aligning to the human genome and the lowest number of bases aligning to H37Rv. Is there any data differentiating this specimen from the others e.g purulent / non purulent/ bloody? This could also indicate an inherent variability in the DNase protocol outcome . 2. The pplacer output to produce Figure S1 should be described in a bit more detail than the legend "Generated from output files from pplacer"
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Culture-independent detection and characterisation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and M. africanum in sputum samples using shotgun metagenomics on a benchtop sequencer (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.585v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 27, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This article is overall well written and describes interesting, technically sound data that is important to the fields of Mycobacterium research as well as next generation sequencing for diagnostics. Line numbers would have been helpful. There are some small grammatical errors to be fixed and then the paper is suitable for publication. Specifically: -in third paragraph of abstract, line 2, unitalicize the parenthesis behind IS6110 -page 5, line 2, "..sequencing for routine use of in some.." delete 'of' -page 6, paragraph 2, (Kent and Kubica...,1985) is there some text missing or what is the '...' for? -page 7, paragraph 3, "The stringent protocol which allowed.." delete 'which' -page 7, paragraph 3, "..into a tab-lineated format.." I would suggest 'tab-delineated' -page 9, paragraph 1, "..sputum metagenomes that that aligned.." delete one instance of 'that' -page 9, paragraph 3, "In sample assigned to the LAM clade.." I would suggest "In one sample.." or "In the sample.." -in legend for Figure 1 and in all the paper titles in reference list, italicize genus and species names -in the fourth to last reference, something appears to have gone wrong with the formatting and there is extra space Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Culture-independent detection and characterisation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and M. africanum in sputum samples using shotgun metagenomics on a benchtop sequencer (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.585v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 14, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
