Review History for Measuring clients’ experiences with antenatal care before or after childbirth: it matters [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Measuring clients’ experiences with antenatal care before or after childbirth: it matters To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 3rd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 10th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on September 20th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 2nd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Offer Erez
·
Oct 2, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have addressed the commentsof the reviewers and therefore this manuscript can be accepted for publication
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 20, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Offer Erez
·
Jul 10, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript has received favorable reviews Nevertheless their comments need to be addressed before we can consider the article further for possible publication
label_author_1
Steve Sizmur ·
Jun 19, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
> Clear, unambiguous, professional English language used throughout. The standard of English is generally good and with the exception of some minor editing will be appropriate for publication. > Intro & background to show context. The context and background to the key research question are well described and the need for this study justified. Please state in which countries the ReproQ is the national survey of childbirth care (Line 78). > Literature well referenced & relevant. Appropriate literature has been referenced. > Structure conforms to PeerJ standards, discipline norm, or improved for clarity. The article follows a Methods/Results/Discussion structure, including limitations and conclusions, which is appropriate for this type of report. > Figures are relevant, high quality, well labelled & described. The Figures are basic but generally clear. > Raw data supplied (see PeerJ policy). A labelled SPSS data set is provided.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
> Original primary research within Scope of the journal. The research topic is relevant to health service quality improvement, and can therefore be considered an aspect of health science, so although based in social science methodology it is my view that it is within the journal’s scope. > Research question well defined, relevant & meaningful. It is stated how the research fills an identified knowledge gap. The research addresses a clear issue in the measurement of maternal care experience, and this is important because it affects the interpretation of results from surveys of antenatal care and the future development of measurement in this area. These in turn impact on the delivery of high quality healthcare. The research question is clearly stated and defined. > Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical & ethical standard. The question has been carefully investigated using appropriate statistical methods, and on the whole the results are clearly reported. However, where statistical significance tests are reported (Table 4), this is done using asterisks to indicated p<0.05, whereas actual p-values should be reported. This is not only good statistical practice (see American Psychological Association style), it is also a requirement of this journal. > Methods described with sufficient detail & information to replicate. The methods are generally well-described and SPSS analysis syntax is provided which makes clear how analyses were conducted and will aid in replication. The ‘median’ scoring approach is a little hard to follow in the text, and could usefully be clarified by stating in the initial description that the median referred to (Line 132) is the median of all cases in the data – or if not, then to specify which reference is used. The decision to exclude women who filled out the questionnaires in paper form (Line 164) is puzzling and would benefit from some explanation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
> Negative/inconclusive results accepted. The commentary covers positive and negative results without prejudice. > Meaningful replication encouraged where rationale & benefit to literature is clearly stated. There is no invitation to undertake replication of the results. > Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled. The ‘funnel’ down from 3,313 women invited to take part to 462 actually participating is considerable, and presents a risk of bias. This in itself is not mentioned as a limitation of the study, although there is some comment on differences between the sample characteristics and the women originally eligible. It would be advisable to include a note about these numbers, and if possible also to provide some reassurance that other characteristics were broadly comparable. > Speculation is welcome, but should be identified as such. The discussion includes informed speculation, and this is clearly indicated by the wording. > Conclusions are well stated, linked to original research question & limited to supporting results. The conclusions are generally sound and reflect the results obtained. However, that ‘agreement between the antenatal experiences measured before and after childbirth is overall poor to moderate’ (Line 388) applies to summary scores, not necessarily to the domain scores or items (notably in relation to negative scores, when the agreement is often ‘excellent’). This should be clarified.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This study addresses an important aspect of the validity of survey results for antenatal care and demonstrates the impact of delaying evaluation until after delivery, as well as indicating some of the factors that may affect delayed evaluation. It has been well-conducted and the results show these findings clearly. As well as being immediately relevant to maternity care, the findings should also encourage reflection more generally on how events between a care episode and a service-user survey can impact on the ratings obtained. Cite this review as
Sizmur S ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Measuring clients’ experiences with antenatal care before or after childbirth: it matters (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5851v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 9, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors need to check that they are using the correct term in the following places: Line 279: “Secondly, we did not administer whether the clients’ situation changed during the interval between test and retrospective test other than the events, experiences and perceptions during childbirth and postnatal care. It is possible that omitted variables could further modify the gap between test and retrospective test.” Perhaps the word administer should be replaced with “test”. Minor editing issues need to be addressed as shown below: Line 66 – clarify: “events that happened since, particularly regarding the antenatal care experiences.” Since the antenatal experiences. Line 210 – “The following sets of determinants were included (forced entry)” – meaning of “forced entry”? Table 2 key – “(never in an domain and/or ‘sometimes’ in the individually chosen two most important domains).” ‘Never’ should also have apostrophes. Table 2 - the “vs” –is slightly distracting and not necessary I think. Perhaps a single vertical line between the 3 types of scores could be applied instead. Table 4- the header seems to be very long and incomplete – authors to check. Reporting of statistics As required by the journal, authors should report the exact p-values and not ranges.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
To help the reader to understand the three different scoring models, given their centrality to the analysis, it may be useful to insert a small table on this could be helpful, showing the definition and descriptive statistics.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Through multiple revisions in preparation for submission of the manuscript, as inevitably happens, some discrepancies may have crept in. In the abstract, the authors highlight two broad factors accounting for the gap between the gold standard and the retrospective assessment as follows: “Adverse experiences during childbirth and postnatal care and lack of professional continuity during childbirth negatively influenced postnatal measurement of antenatal experiences.” However, in searching for the phrase “adverse experiences in childbirth”, this phrase does not occur in the results, nor in the discussion. It would make it easier for the reader if there was a one-to-one alignment. Currently the results read: “Additionally, gap between antenatal and postnatal measurement is (partly) associated with clients’ experiences during childbirth and postnatal care and by professional discontinuity during childbirth”. In the discussion, the same observation reads: “Surprisingly, the perceived health outcome of mother and child had no impact on the antenatal experiences measured after childbirth.” - this latter description seems to contradict the statement in the abstract. Yes the effect of professional continuity is accounted for: “One exception to this is professional continuity during childbirth that was of significant impact on the antenatal experiences measured after childbirth. In the conclusion, the related observation reads: “Measurement of antenatal experiences postnatally is probably subject to postnatal effects.” When reviewing Table 4 one observes that the overall rating of the experience of birth is significant in explaining the antenatal total experience score as measured after birth (dependent variable: 1.05 - 2.87 *). However, the “health outcomes” related to birth do not seem to hold explanatory power according to the regression analyses. The authors may wish to consider aligning all these statements more clearly. Another issue is to improve the clariy of the findings in the first paragraph of the discussion. In the opening part of the discussion, state clearly what the final pattern is before indicating, as done in Line 286/7 – that “patterns were quite consistent” for the scoring model used. Then, the use and performance of different sum scores to test agreement could be compared in separate paragraphs afterwards, but only with reference to any significance of the difference in performance of the agreement statistics. In some ways I wonder whether the difference in performance of the agreement statistics distracts from the key messages. Perhaps keeping this section shorter, as long as it doesn't undermine validity, will make for a cleaner exposition.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I commend the authors for raising this important measurement question and resolving it with an in-depth analysis. The measurement of maternal experiences related to antenatal care is important. The manuscript supports the measurement of antenatal experience during the late stages of pregnancy as the gold standard, rather than after the birth event. Aside from being more accurate, the timing of the measurement may also assist in improving the quality cycle. Overall, the manuscript is accurate and clear, providing sufficient information on the data, methods and results. There are just minor suggestions to address the presentation of the work undertaken. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Measuring clients’ experiences with antenatal care before or after childbirth: it matters (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5851v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 3, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
