Review History for First occurrence of the enigmatic peccaries Mylohyus elmorei and Prosthennops serus from the Appalachians: latest Hemphillian to Early Blancan of Gray Fossil Site, Tennessee [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History First occurrence of the enigmatic peccaries Mylohyus elmorei and Prosthennops serus from the Appalachians: latest Hemphillian to Early Blancan of Gray Fossil Site, Tennessee To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 15th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 30th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on October 12th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 14th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Andrew Farke
·
Oct 14, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your close attention to the comments from the reviewers. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Laura Wilson, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 12, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Andrew Farke
·
Sep 30, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The comments from the reviewers are comparatively minor, and hopefully should be easy to incorporate. Reviewer 1's notes on the issue of niche partitioning is perhaps the most critical--this should be addressed in your revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Richard Hulbert ·
Sep 10, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Overall the paper is well written, the identifications of the two species appear to be correct, the descriptions are good if perhaps a little too detailed, and the specimen images and tables are adequate. There are a few grammatical and formatting errors.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The weakest part of the paper is the paleoecology section that runs from the bottom of page 26 to the top part of page 28. The abstract states that “The preservation of these two species from GFS suggests tayassuid niche partitioning in this ancient forested ecosystem.” The authors do not provide any direct evidence of niche partitioning between the two GFS peccaries (e.g., microwear or stable C isotope analysis of paleodiet; biomechanical analysis of jaw mechanics, etc.). Basically, it is just the two species are both present at the site, therefore niche partitioning. Furthermore, the authors have not presented evidence that the two species actually co-occur in the same beds or levels from the GFS, meaning that they might not be truly sympatric in the ecological sense. Recent papers by Yann and DeSantis (2014) and Bedham et al. (2018) that do these types of studies are not cited. I would recommend that this section either be enhanced by further analysis of the paleoecology of the two species at the GFS and expand this section, or delete it altogether.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
other than the point made in #2, the findings and and analyses are valid
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Hulbert R ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "First occurrence of the enigmatic peccaries Mylohyus elmorei and Prosthennops serus from the Appalachians: latest Hemphillian to Early Blancan of Gray Fossil Site, Tennessee (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5926v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In the Introduction section the abbreviated GFS should be placed first as Gray Fossil Site, then subsequently as GFS. In Figure 1, if you choose to follow the taxonomy suggested by Parisi Dutra 2017, use Protherohyus instead of Catagonus. At line 355, change "peg like" to "pig-like"
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comments
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "First occurrence of the enigmatic peccaries Mylohyus elmorei and Prosthennops serus from the Appalachians: latest Hemphillian to Early Blancan of Gray Fossil Site, Tennessee (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5926v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 15, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
