Review History for Designing online species identification tools for biological recording: the impact on data quality and citizen science learning [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Designing online species identification tools for biological recording: the impact on data quality and citizen science learning To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 22nd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 30th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on October 18th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 19th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
David Roberts
·
Oct 19, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Many thanks for the thoughtful response to the reviewers and amendments to the manuscript. I believe the manuscript has been significantly improved and happy to recommend it be accepted. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Patricia Gandini, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 18, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Roberts
·
Jul 30, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Having read the paper and the reviewers comments I am in agreement with their analysis that the manuscript just requires tightening up and clarifying in places.
label_author_1
Gail Austen ·
Jul 2, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
A well written paper which highlights the multi-faceted nature of citizen science projects. The authors provide a succinct and insightful overview of some of the challenges in contemporary biological recording, and discuss practical elements that are sometimes overlooked in other literature.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Pleased to see the use of mixed methods which offer an insight into the decision making process. The study could be readily replicated, or repeated with variation (e.g. different taxa or participant knowledge base).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I believe the findings to be of interest and useful to a range of people involved in biological recording. The authors have drawn on a variety of research areas, demonstrating that accurate species identification can depend upon a number of factors, and make suggestions on how to aid the learning process.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
An interesting paper that addresses important aspects of species identification in the context of the wider use of technology. It is also encouraging to see further application of knowledge from other disciplines to species identification. A few comments: •Line 62: Perhaps explain or reference the term ‘digital turn’? I’ve never come across the term and although I have found it in a web search, I wasn’t sure if it relates to a particular book or a wider concept that the book covers. •Line 167: not important, but expanding Stevenson et al. to include Haber & Morris would show the reader that you are referring to the same paper being referenced throughout. •Line 266: Should read Go Botany (not Botony). •Line 318: reads “A paper version of the NASA-TLX subjective workload questionnaire (see below) was filled out by the participant for the completed identification task”. Does the see below refer to the explanation in lines 331-2? If so, would it be useful to include as an appendix? •Line 343: should nasa read NASA? •Lines 379, 394 & 416: which post hoc analyses were used? •Participant consent (for the future): I would like to have seen another option for gender (e.g. other or prefer not to answer), especially as Aberdeen has an Athena Swan award. •Perhaps one more careful read to identify double spaces or no spaces (e.g. before references in line 68 and 149), although this may just on my version of PDF (which has happened before!) The paper was a pleasure to read, and just needs clarification in some places given that PeerJ is cross discipline and some readers may not be familiar with some of the concepts. Good luck! Cite this review as
Austen GE ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Designing online species identification tools for biological recording: the impact on data quality and citizen science learning (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5965v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Alex Papadopoulos ·
Jul 29, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Parts of the literature review can be confusing, with sentences being too big and vague, not necessarily connected with the aim of the study. Data classification applications in Citizen Science are very common, both in online and offline forms, but it is not mentioned or explained enough in the text.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Given that this is a usability based research for a citizen science application, trying to identify pain-points and the differences in learning for specific features, it could be useful to replicate the study with participants that are not familiar with any type of identification, and participants who are not involved with any type of environmental research. Many of the users who use said applications are lay people, not necessarily familiar with any of the processes, which could potentially create different results in the study than the one with the conservation students.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Very useful research, covers areas in citizen science data identification that are not explored in-depth yet. Cite this review as
Papadopoulos A ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Designing online species identification tools for biological recording: the impact on data quality and citizen science learning (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5965v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 22, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
