Review History for Genetic and phenotypic differentiation of lumpfish (Cyclopterus lumpus) across the North Atlantic: implications for conservation and aquaculture [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Genetic and phenotypic differentiation of lumpfish ( Cyclopterus lumpus ) across the North Atlantic: implications for conservation and aquaculture To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 27th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 19th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on October 18th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 22nd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dany Garant
·
Oct 22, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors are commended for their revisions on the manuscript. I am pleased to recommend it for publication. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by James Reimer, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 18, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dany Garant
·
Sep 19, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
We have now received two reviews for your manuscript. Both reviewers felt that your manuscript deserves to be published once the modifications suggested are incorporated. In particular, as you can assess from their comments, they would like to see the details of the methods better outlined, including a clearer link with the study objectives. More specifically, the first reviewer questioned the relatively low number of loci used and asked that the revised discussion includes a section concerning this issue and its impact on the results (effective size). The second reviewer specifically asked for a clarification of one of the research questions and had concerns regarding Bayesian clustering analyses that need to be clearly addressed in your revision. Revised figures should also be provided to better illustrate the data.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In general, the manuscript was well written.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methods section lacks sufficient detail. The relevance of some of the statistical tests to the overall objectives of the study should be made clearer.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The number of loci used is quite low for robust estimation of demographic parameters. This needs to be addressed in the discussion.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Minor Comments Line 102. Which classes of markers have been used in these earlier studies? Line 110. The first sentence should read, “There were three basic aims of this study.” Line 116, 121. New paragraphs are not needed here. Line 119. Describe what is meant by “genetic baseline”. Line 129. A map should be included here to show lumpfish distribution and sampled sites. Line 128. Clarify how were individuals assigned to populations for AMOVA analysis? Line 144. Were this loci designed for use in lumpfish? This should be stated here. Line 189. What does alpha stand for here? It is unclear what this matrix is being used for. In general more explanation is needed regarding how divMigrate estimates Nm. Line 193. How well does the LDM method estimate Ne based on only 10 loci and small sample sizes? Line 197. Why test for population expansion here? Is this a test for bottlenecks? This needs more explanation. Line 203. What is the life-span and age of reproduction for lumpfish? Did you examine sex ratios? Line 240. This FST seems very low. What is considered significant differentiation? A reference should be used to support this. Line 243. The AMOVA results should be shown in a table. Line 255. This should be a “neighbor joining tree”. Line 299. Many of the FST values were very low. Line 309. Remove “did”. Figure 2. Specify in the legend what the numbers are on the branches. Should the legend read Neighbor joining tree? Figure 3. Populations should be labelled here to be consistent with Figure 2. One of the populations has an effective population size of infinity. This usually means that the data was uninformative. This should be addressed in the discussion. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Genetic and phenotypic differentiation of lumpfish (Cyclopterus lumpus) across the North Atlantic: implications for conservation and aquaculture (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5974v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 19, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall this manuscript is well presented, clearly written and concise. The figures and tables are relevant and the raw data are supplied as supplementary material.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research questions are well defined except the third one (lines 122-125) where the authors propose to estimate ‘effective population size and test for genetic bottlenecks to better understand conservation status and the extent to which gene flow could mitigate the impact of over -exploitation’. The latter statement is unclear as the focus of the ms is rather on the preservation of distinct genetic units with potential local adaptation (putatively linked to phenotypic differentiation) hence gene flow (artificial by translocation?) would not seem the best solution to ‘mitigate the impact of overexploitation’ and fishery regulations would seem more appropriate? The statistical analyses are relevant and well performed, and methods are mostly described with sufficient detail. I have only some concerns with the Bayesian clustering analyses of population structure. The authors used the programs Structure and Tess to identify the number of clusters (K) in their data set. However, with Structure they used the new estimators developed by Puechmaille (2016) to infer K even though those estimators require the a priori information of geographic origin of individuals (or the membership to a given population) to be calculated. Hence this analysis can be seen as partially redundant with the one performed with Tess that explicitly uses spatial information of the localization of individuals to infer K. An alternative would be to analyze Structure output with no a priori on the geographic origin of individuals by using the direct posterior probability for each K or the deltaK estimator. In addition, it is not clear how the spatial information was incorporated in the Tess analysis as it seems that the precise location where each individual fish was collected was not known as only one location is indicated for each site even though those sites may cover large areas.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The conclusions are well stated and limited to supported results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I believe this manuscript deserves to be published once the modifications suggested above are incorporated. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Genetic and phenotypic differentiation of lumpfish (Cyclopterus lumpus) across the North Atlantic: implications for conservation and aquaculture (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5974v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 27, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
