Review History for Multi-decade biomass dynamics in an old-growth hemlock-northern hardwood forest, Michigan, USA [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Multi-decade biomass dynamics in an old-growth hemlock-northern hardwood forest, Michigan, USA To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 16th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 22nd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on September 5th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 6th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Herman Shugart
·
Sep 6, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Hello Kerry, Thanks for your changes. I think it is a very nice contribution. It's been a long, long time since our paths have crossed. I hope all is well. Hank
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 5, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Herman Shugart
·
Aug 22, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both of your reviewer's were felt your paper is a valuable contribution. There are some useful suggestions that your should consider and respond to as appropriate. I found your use of first-person was distracting and reduced this reader's focus on the research. This is your choice but you might consider this in your revision.
label_author_1
Peter Curtis ·
Aug 12, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This paper is nicely constructed, with clear objectives, well articulated presentation of prior research, easily interpreted findings, and informative interpretation and discussion. My only substantive criticism is that Tables 1-3 repeat data presented in Figures 3, 7 and 8. Such repetition makes it easier for subsequent users to extract data, but if space is limiting the tables could be eliminated.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This is an observational study based on repeated sampling of plots over 47 years. The author has quite reasonably decided to group subsets of these plots based on qualitative floristic similarity such that the number of ‘replicates’ within a plot group is quite small (n=2-9). Nonetheless, the statistics applied are appropriate and the data are not over-interpreted. As importantly, sources of error and uncertainty resulting from the use of allometric scaling equations of unknown accuracy are accounted for and discussed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This is a unique data set chronicling multi-decadal biomass and coarse woody debris change in a cool temperate eastern old-growth forest and is important in and of itself. The author frames his paper with four pertinent questions regarding the ecology of these systems and presents well-reasoned conclusions as to the extent to which firm answers to these questions can be reached, based on the data. Findings are supported by the data and advance our understanding of these rare ecosystems.
Cite this review as
Curtis P ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Multi-decade biomass dynamics in an old-growth hemlock-northern hardwood forest, Michigan, USA (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.598v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 19, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I found the manuscript of considerable interest and found it to be technically sound. The quality of the data and length of the study are truly noteworthy. The only limitation is the lack of published biomass equations for large trees, but the author is appropriately cautious and discusses this at length in both the methods and discussion. Specific comments: Abstract, line 14 of text. Change “have are neither increasing nor decreasing” to “have neither increased nor decreased” Body of manuscript L50. Insert “varying” after “history” L139. Replace “plog” with “plot” L150. What was the statistical approach? It should be described in the methods rather than in the results section. L156. Change “vales” to “values” L161. Change “is” to “was” L197-198. Awkward, please clarify. L228. Change “70%” to “70 cm dbh”? L263. Change “hoever” to “however” L306-312. This section would be improved by adding some references and values for decay rates of the major species. A residence time of 16 years seems short in comparison to other studies. L322. Delete extra carriage return. L367-368. Please revise sentence for clarity. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Multi-decade biomass dynamics in an old-growth hemlock-northern hardwood forest, Michigan, USA (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.598v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 16, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
