Review History for A systematic review of the validity of patient derived xenograft (PDX) models: the implications for translational research and personalised medicine [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A systematic review of the validity of patient derived xenograft (PDX) models: the implications for translational research and personalised medicine To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 1st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 25th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on October 19th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 23rd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Philip Coates
·
Oct 23, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Many thanks for attending to the reviewers comments, which has improved the quality of your manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 19, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Philip Coates
·
Sep 25, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
You will see from the two reviewers comments that they have suggested a number of minor changes and some more major changes, mainly by including a fuller explanation of the work. I hope you take these as constructive comments and I urge you to address them fully in a revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 20, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
a.The report is written in very clear English and is easy to read and well-explained b.The literature cited is correct and at sufficient depth. c.The article is well structured with appropriate use of Tables and Figures and all the raw data has been shared. i.Modification 1: Could Figure 2 and 3 have different titles in the Figure legends to more easily discern the difference between them? ii.Modification 2: Figure 4 does not appear to be described in the text of the results
Experimental design
label_ed_1
a.The research question was well-defined and clearly stated b.Use of appropriate standards was carried out or described in detail why they were not appropriate c.The use of two independent assessors followed by resolving any discrepancies by consensus is appropriate i.Modification 1: Figure 1 showing the PRISMA flow diagram has been uploaded incorrectly and appears to be from the authors previous paper (Collins, Ross and Lang 2017) ii.Modification 2: The authors claim only one paper stated it followed the ARRIVE guidelines (results line 152 and discussion line 298). However, authors may well adhere to reporting their experiments in accordance with the ARRIVE guidelines without necessarily stating they are. Have the authors checked whether each paper actually did report their methods following the ARRIVE guidelines?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
a.The data is robust and detailed. There are no methods employed to determine whether there are any statistically differences in level of concern between model type (breast, colon, lung and prostate) but this may not be appropriate in this setting. b.The conclusions are well-stated and clearly explained. c.The suggestions for improvement in validating and describing PDX models are detailed and give much food for thought researchers in the field of PDX generation
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This paper aimed to systematically review generation of PDX models in breast, colon, lung and prostate cancer. They reported on the number of these papers that correctly assessed whether they had generated an appropriate PDX and crucially critiqued the models validity in a non-biased, systematic method. In general, this is an important paper for the PDX community to read due to its rigour and provides a salutary lesson in reporting and validation. I would recommend acceptance to publish with the modifications described above. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "A systematic review of the validity of patient derived xenograft (PDX) models: the implications for translational research and personalised medicine (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5981v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Maarten van Smeden ·
Sep 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In general, this paper is well written and structured The numbers between the text and the flow-chart do not seem to match. For instance, the flow chart reports 34 included studies, while the texts suggests 110 (line 127)
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Many studies were excluded after full-text reads. The reasons for exclusion are only shortly described. I encourage the authors to define clearly the exclusion reasons and give some practical examples (with literature reference) for some of the more common excluded types (e.g. “no asymmetric inheritance”, “no relevant organelle”, “wrong population”)
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors should clarify what they mean with “model validation”. Apparently, publications without validation experiments were excluded for the review. I believe it is crucial that the authors describe what counts as “model validation” and what doesn’t. Related to the comment above, I have no clue what the authors mean with “none of the studies clearly validated their models” (line 154-155). It is unclear from this text what their newly created model validity tool (2017) is actually doing and how it was developed. I urge the authors to summarize that here in the current manuscript. The authors report an important lack of information on one or more validation questions (line 159). It would be helpful if the authors could provide a frequency table with these questions and the times it couldn’t be answered. Cite this review as
van Smeden M ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "A systematic review of the validity of patient derived xenograft (PDX) models: the implications for translational research and personalised medicine (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5981v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 1, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
