Review History for Real-time loop-mediated isothermal amplification for rapid detection of Enterocytozoon hepatopenaei [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Real-time loop-mediated isothermal amplification for rapid detection of Enterocytozoon hepatopenaei To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 31st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 7th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on October 18th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 24th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Wenbao Qi
·
Oct 24, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your revision has addressed the concerns. Please try your best to generalize this rapid real-time Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification (real-time LAMP) method in detection of EHP. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Valeria Souza, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 18, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Wenbao Qi
·
Sep 7, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. It has now been reviewed by experts in the field who commented favorably on the significance of the work to the field. All had comments to enhance the manuscript as below. It should also be polished by a native speaker.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 12, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
'no comment'
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors in this paper were aimed to establish an effective diagnostic method for the detection and prevention of Enterocytozoon hepatopenaei (EHP), which has emerged as a serious pathogen reported to be associated with retarded growth in cultured shrimp. The real time loop-mediated isothermal amplification (real-time LAMP) for rapid detection of EHP has been developed. This method was compared with the conventional LAMP, showing less time and cost consumption. Its application greatly aids in the surveillance, prevention, and control of EHP. Thus the method for EHP presented might mean a contribution to the cultured shrimp industry. For benefit of the reader, however, before acceptance for publication, I would recommend minor changes to be taken into account in the manuscript.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
'no comment'
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Recommendation: The paper is probably publication, but the paper should be reviewed again in revised form before it is accepted. Additional Comments: Firstly, regarding the EHP, I think the following article should be cited in the chapter introduction: Tourtip, S., Wongtripop, S., Stentiford, G.D., Bateman, K.S., Sriurairatana, S., Chavadej, J.,Sritunyalucksana, K., Withyachumnarnkul, B., 2009. Enterocytozoon hepatopenaei sp. nov. (microsporida: Enterocytozoonidae), a parasite of the black tiger shrimp Penaeus monodon (Decapoda: Penaeidae): <U+FB01>ne structure and phylogenetic relationships. J. Invertebr. Pathol. 102, 21–29. Secondly, the labeling in Figure 4 should be lowercase. Thirdly, I think that there are words more appropriate other than “primers are preferred” in the result in line 165. Fourthly, the paper also has some typos and language issue which needs to be checked and corrected in the revision. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Real-time loop-mediated isothermal amplification for rapid detection of Enterocytozoon hepatopenaei (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5993v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 31, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Please provide the data about practical application to clinical samples.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Enterocytozoon hepatopenaei (EHP) is a newly emerged microsporidian parasite that causes retarded shrimp growth. In this study, the authors established and evaluated a rapid real-time Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification (real-time LAMP) for detection of EHP. It is important and necessary to develop a specific, rapid and sensitive EHP diagnostic method to identify this parasite. However, I think the authors should consider the following comments: (1)EHP infection involves the absence of obvious clinical signs and it is difficult to identify the pathogen through visual examination. Then in the field, in order to control or eliminate EHP, how were samples collected from the shrimps without clinical signs? Does sampling cause enormous damage to shrimp? (2)In this study, a real-time LAMP for detection of EHP were developed. But in the parts (Materials and methods, and Results), there is not data about the practical application of the real-time LAMP to clinical samples. Please provide the relative data. (3)On lines 209-210, are you sure that the equipment for the LAMP is not expensive? (4)The real-time LAMP is helpful to identify the EHP infection. But it is difficult to control parasite in the shrimps using this method. Some drugs or vaccines might eliminate EHP. Please revised the manuscript. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Real-time loop-mediated isothermal amplification for rapid detection of Enterocytozoon hepatopenaei (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5993v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Sep 5, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The Enterocytozoonhepatopenaei(EHP) becomes more prevalent pathogen since the pathogen was associatedwith retarded growth. Therefore an effective detection method for the pathogen is necessary. This MS have developed real-time loop-mediated isothermal amplification (real-time LAMP) for EHP, which is very helpful for survey and detection.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
the findings of the MS is already validated.
Comments for the author
1. The introduction at the first of the paper is too simple for the readers, as a newly microsporidian parasite, it is the characteristics of this article. I believe that it will be helpful if the authors can make a more detail. 2. EHP is a pathogen, not a disease, for the word “EHP diagnostic method”in line 36, so maybe should add a word “infected” to make it more clearly, “EHP-infectedshrimp diagnostic method”. 3. There are four pathogens used in the paper, so the word “pathogen” in line 40 should be “pathogens”, also the “was” should be “were”correspond. 4. The word “EHP diagnostic” in line 91 should be “EHP-infected shrimp”. 5. The first sentence in the part “The established real-time LAMP is highly sensitive’ in line 182 should be adjusted to “Sensitivity analysis was performed…”. 6.For the legend of Figure 2, there are many repeated descriptions“Amplification curve” in line269-272, the legend about different curve could short for “(A)EHP3.(B) EHP Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Real-time loop-mediated isothermal amplification for rapid detection of Enterocytozoon hepatopenaei (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.5993v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 31, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
