Review History for Inverse modelling for predicting both water and nitrate movement in a structured-clay soil (Red Ferrosol) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Inverse modelling for predicting both water and nitrate movement in a structured-clay soil (Red Ferrosol) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 30th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 7th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on October 24th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 26th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Samuel Abiven
·
Oct 26, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your hard work on the revision, I am happy to accept your manuscript for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 24, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Samuel Abiven
·
May 7, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript was evaluated by two reviewers, who were quite positive about your work. Both ask for some more details and supplementary information, in particular related to the modeling. I am looking forward to see the revised version of the manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 7, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This paper is well written and provides interesting results on the use of inverse modelling to parameterise models for water flow and solute transport. Detailed suggestions for consideration by the authors have been added as comment boxes throughout the pdf manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
A critical component of this paper is the inverse modelling of soil hydraulic parameter. However, the explanation and detail of how the column data was incorporated and run in Hydrus 1-D to generate the inverse parameters is insufficient for readers to easily understand how this was undertaken. In addition a table of the column data that was used in the inverse modelling would be useful to enable others to repeat the parameter optimisation. If this is felt to be too big to go into the paper then a much clearer table needs to be added in the supplemental files. The paper reports on a small study, with little replication, however the excellent fit between measured and modelled data suggests that, unless the authors have been very lucky, further replication would probably have been superfluous. The controlled conditions where soil structure was accurately reproduced also added to the success of this small study. The authors have provide a great deal of information in the supplemental files, however, more descriptive metadata would be useful if they are to be readily accessible to readers.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are generally well described and supported by the data. Some extra discussion on the authors thoughts on the practical merits of having to include independent measurement for the inverse modelling, and why adding retention points might make the Rosetta results worse would be interesting.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I look forward to the review comments being addressed and seeing the paper published. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Inverse modelling for predicting both water and nitrate movement in a structured-clay soil (Red Ferrosol) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6002v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Freeman Cook ·
May 7, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a generally well written manuscript. There are some aspect where I think the authors need to explain or describe what they have done in more detail.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The value of l in Table 2 is quite different to the standard HYDRUS value of 0.5, yet no attention or discussion about this occurs. Having a large value of l will mean that the hydraulic conductivity decreases rapidly with water content. All the Rosetta derived values will have used 0.5, rather than values > 3 as given in Table 2. This will have a large effect on the shape of figure 3a, which is why the Rosetta derived values may have been unable to match the experimental data in figure 4. The authors show see what happens if the alter l with the other Rosetta values. Cook and Cresswell (2008) (Cook FJ and Cresswell HP (2007). Chapter 84 Estimation of Soil Hydraulic Properties. In Soil Sampling and Methods of Analysis. M.R. Carter and E.G. Gregorich (Eds.), Canadian Society of Soil Science, Taylor and Francis, LLC, Boca Raton, Fl, 1139-1161.) discuss how to estimate l.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Thevan Genuchten equation and Mualem equations need to be shown. The values of the parameters in this equation are shown in Table 2 but no explanation of what the parameters represent. This could be done either in the text or in the caption of Table 2. The symbols in Table 2 need correcting as they differ from Table 3 and the rest of the text and figures
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The referencing needs to be fixed with citations missing from the reference list and references which are not cited. There are also a few minor grammatical corrections required. Minor Corrections. 1.Lines 48 and 49 and throughout the rest of the manuscript. Vrugy and Bouten (2002) and Wohling et al. (2008) are not in the reference list. Also for the Wohling reference et al. is not italicised 2.Line 62. I think the reference to Mallant et al. (2007) should be Mallants et al. (2007). 3.Line 77. Jacques et al. (2012) is not in the reference list. 4.Line 171. The abbreviation CI is not defined. 5.Line 201. Replace ‘was’ with ‘were’. 6.Line 208. I do not know what ‘equivalent’ refers to? 7.Line 219. Replace ‘Horizontal Columns’ with ‘Wedges’. 8.Line 255. Simunek and van Genuchten (1996) is not in the reference list. 9.Line 323. I think Hopmans (2002) should be Hopmans et al. (2002). 10.Line 428. Gardenas et al. is not cited. 11.Lines 428-487. Romos et al. (2011, 2012) are not cited. 12.Line 520. Soil Survey Staff (1992) is not cited. 13.Table 2. Symbols used are not correct. Cite this review as
Cook F ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Inverse modelling for predicting both water and nitrate movement in a structured-clay soil (Red Ferrosol) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6002v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 30, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
