Review History for Between extreme simplification and ideal optimization: antennal sensilla morphology of miniaturized Megaphragma wasps (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Between extreme simplification and ideal optimization: antennal sensilla morphology of miniaturized Megaphragma wasps (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 31st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 25th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on October 25th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 26th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Oct 26, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Diakova and colleagues: Thanks for re-submitting your manuscript to PeerJ, and for addressing the concerns raised by the reviewers. I now believe that your manuscript is suitable for publication. Congratulations! I look forward to seeing this work in print, and I anticipate it being an important resource for the hymenopteran community, especially researchers interested in trichogrammatid systematics. Thanks again for choosing PeerJ to publish such important work. Best, -joe # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Jennifer Vonk, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 25, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Sep 25, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Diakova and colleagues: Thanks for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. I have now received two independent reviews of your work, and as you will see, both are very favorable. Well done! Nonetheless, both reviewers raised some relatively minor concerns about the research, and areas where the manuscript can be improved. A few things in particular: 1) make sure missing references are included in your work, 2) make sure that ALL figure legends contain all of the information necessary to make the figure “stand alone”, 3) try to provide images that more clearly accentuate the structures that you are observing. Please also remember that both reviewers provided marked-up versions of your manuscript. I agree with the issues raised by the reviewers, and thus feel that their concerns should be adequately addressed before moving forward. Therefore, I am recommending that you revise your manuscript accordingly, taking into account all of the issues raised by the reviewers. I do believe that your manuscript will be ready for publication once these issues are addressed. Good luck with your revision, -joe
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 21, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
pdf attached
Experimental design
label_ed_1
pdf attached
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
pdf attached
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Between extreme simplification and ideal optimization: antennal sensilla morphology of miniaturized Megaphragma wasps (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6005v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The paper is written in a good English, although I’m not a native English speaker. The structure of the paper is good and meets the Journal criteria and needs. References are not accurate either in terms of year of citation or journal. I noticed two mistakes (see attached pdf), there could be more but I’m not going to check all the references, this has to be carefully done by the authors. Legend of figures are very scarce and not informative at all, they should describe what’s in the plates and schemes much more in details, especially when the pictures show an extensive lettering (i.e. fig3). I found Fig 3 rather confused hard to read, I suggest to split it into 2 plates of the same size incorporating more data on the reported structures (details of sockets, structures on males). The authors reported data of three Megaphragma species, in two species of both sexes. I suggest the authors to add SEM data of males as well, Fig2 is just not enough to pick the differences and drawings are not true data. I would like to see more pictures of the multiporous tip of the basiconic sensillum, it is not clear to me on the basis of the picture in Fig.3. I’m also rather convinced that PS is an olfactory placoid sensillum, please provide pictures clearly showing the absence of pores (130.000 x is not needed). Comments and suggestions are reported on the attached PDF. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Between extreme simplification and ideal optimization: antennal sensilla morphology of miniaturized Megaphragma wasps (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6005v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 31, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
