Review History for An integrative taxonomic approach reveals Octopus insularis as the dominant species in the Veracruz Reef System (southwestern Gulf of Mexico) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History An integrative taxonomic approach reveals Octopus insularis as the dominant species in the Veracruz Reef System (southwestern Gulf of Mexico) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 4th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 1st, 2018. The first revision was submitted on October 24th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 29th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Rudiger Bieler
·
Oct 29, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the suggested "minor revisions" so thoroughly. I am happy to accept your manuscript at this time. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by James Reimer, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 24, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Rudiger Bieler
·
Oct 1, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As you will see, the two expert reviewers reacted very positively to your manuscript (as do I) and suggested a few relatively minor modifications. I agree that showing a PCO plot would be very useful.
label_author_1
Louise Allcock ·
Sep 27, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a clear well-written paper that tackles an important subject and provides a definitive answer. Most of the figures and tables are necessary although I would suggest figure 5 and figure 9 could be merged. The text size on figures 7 & 8 needs to be increased. Although abbreviations are fine for localities in figures and tables, I think it would be helpful if VRS was written in full throughout the text. Genbank accession numbers are reported for new sequences. Some points of grammar: Line 68: ‘lies’ not ‘lays’ Line 73: ‘to date’ not ‘up to date’ Line 90: “it is now known” not “now it is known” Line 208: ‘data are’ not ‘data is’ Line 324: “in contrast’ not ‘On the other hand’. In English, ‘on the other hand’ is very informal. Line 324: “differentiating” not “differencing” Line 331: “shared” not “share” Line 378: delete “on the other hand” it is not necessary
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This is original primary research which falls within the aims and scope of the journal. The question is an important one concerning correct identification of a commercially fished species. The paper uses standard techniques which are well executed and I find little to criticize within the methods. They are well described and the data are clearly presented. Authors should check that they are always citing the paper they intended and citing correctly. For example, Line 209, I think the authors are referring to Allcock, Strugnell & Johnson, 2008. Similarly Line 215. Authors might also check references in Table 4. I think, for example, that Allcock et al. 2006 included O. vulgaris from France, not from Brazil. Sequences from Cistopus indicus are available in both Gukiz et al. 2005 and Strugnell et al. 2014, and additional rhodopsin sequences may be found in Strugnell et al. 2014.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This is all well done and I find little to criticize. Perhaps the authors could add a little more on the identification of O. insularis versus O. vulgaris based on the external skin sculpture. Norman and Hochberg have often mentioned the classic "patch and groove" sculpture of Octopus s.s., so I think it would be helpful to include a more directly stated comparison of how O. insularis external colour/sculpture differens from "patch and groove"
Cite this review as
Allcock L ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "An integrative taxonomic approach reveals Octopus insularis as the dominant species in the Veracruz Reef System (southwestern Gulf of Mexico) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6015v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Alvaro Roura ·
Oct 1, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
It is a well structured and integrative study dealing with a complex issue such as redefining a "plastic" octopod species originally identified as Octopus vulgaris. The authors did a great morphological and genetic job to show that the species inhabiting the Veracruz reef system is O. insularis, rather than O. vulgaris. I only have minor comments that are attached to the pdf. 1. I would like to see a PCO plot rather than MDS because it shows the true differences in mulditimensional space for the 10 traits measured in two axis that account for a certain % of total variance, rather than maximizing these differences in the first two axis which is the representation of MDS. 2. I would suggest to concatenate the sequences obtained to have a better phylogenetic resolution.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Good experimental design, enough samples analysed for the morphological and genetic analyses. The authors need to clarify why the number of specimens analysed for genetics (n=24, line 224) are different than those specified on line 324 (n=19). Indeed, the number of sequences deposited on genbank N= 46 (MH550422-MH550467) is less than the number os genes analyzed (4) and the specimens indicated on line 324 (19x4=76). Also, I missed a table showing the details of the sequences retrieved form Genbank (Acc number, location, species, authors...) so other authors can have a clear picture of the comparisons carried in this study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Great job done by the authors, with important findings that will hopefully change management strategies off the coast of Mexico and Caribean Sea. Conclusion is well stated and linked to the origial research question.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall, a good work with minor things to be changed. Great effort and a good morphological and genetic analysis. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Roura A ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "An integrative taxonomic approach reveals Octopus insularis as the dominant species in the Veracruz Reef System (southwestern Gulf of Mexico) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6015v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 4, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
