Review History for Compatibility between object size and response side in grasping: the left hand prefers smaller objects, the right hand prefers larger objects [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Compatibility between object size and response side in grasping: the left hand prefers smaller objects, the right hand prefers larger objects To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 10th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 9th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on October 25th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 29th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Anna Borghi
·
Oct 29, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am happy to inform you that your paper has been accepted for publication on PeerJ. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Stephen Macknik, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 25, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Anna Borghi
·
Oct 9, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have now received two reviews on your manuscript. I thank the reviewers for their work. As you will see, both reviewers are very positively inclined toward your work, and I share their view. I invite you to address the reviewers' comments. I especially invite you a. to better specify the reasons underlying the choice of kinematics and the specific predictions related to each kinematics parameter (see comments of Reviewer 2), b. to better ground your work in current literature, adding some further references (see suggestions of Reviewer 2) c. to revise the figures and the English (see comments of Reviewer 1). Thank you for sending your interesting work to PeerJ.
label_author_1
Nicholas Holmes ·
Oct 5, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Overall very clear and professionally written. Only a few minor comments (mostly English use) as follows: 73,90 - 'spatial aspects', 'motor aspects' - not clear what is meant. 'parameters'? 82 - 'trajectories shifts' - should be 'trajectory' 86 - 'movements' 113 - spell-out 'S-R' 121 - add ',' after 'specifically' 129 - 'movement latencies' - reaction times or overall movement times? Perhaps use 'lower' and 'higher' latencies to distinguish from object size? 135&136 - 'stronger' - compared to what? 146 - was this '20%' criterion set in advance? what is specific about 20% - is it, for example, the cut-off for chance performance? 149 - add 'years' after age stats 159 - add 'the' before 'object' 160 - change 'weighted' to 'weighed' 163 - 'rapidly' - how rapid? I am aware of similar technology (Plato goggles) which is very rapid (<ms) 165 - '1mm' - this must be at a specific distance from the camera 182 - insert 'as' before 'possible' 205-206 - change 'to' to 'too' 232 - remove 'considerably' 294 - please repeat 'mental number line (MNL)' here, as I'd forgotten what this was after reading results (retroacronym interference!) 317 - 'objects'; add 'than the non-dominant (left) hand' 339 - add 'the' before 'presence' 365 - remove [we demonstrated...] 'not only...artificial stimuli' - the authors did not present any new evidence showing this! Just make conclusions about the current data set, and refer to others' results for the symbolic stimuli Figure 1 - Does left and right panel need A), B) labels? No need for colour really; Otherwise, very nice! Figure 2 - (see Fig 1 commentS). Why not present the mean differences in Panel B as well - this the (second) critical effect?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Clear, concise, well-reported and very well analysed, really nice figures showing (most or) all of the necessary data. Cite this review as
Holmes NP ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Compatibility between object size and response side in grasping: the left hand prefers smaller objects, the right hand prefers larger objects (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6026v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 8, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Literature references provided is extend and well discussed. In my opinon, beside the studies of Lindemann et al. 2007 and Andres et al. 2008 (see lines 95-101), some references should be added: e.g. Badets and Pesenti (2010, Cognition) and Ranzini et al. (2011, Frontiers in Human Neuroscience).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question is clearly define and the knowledge gap being investigate, first of all in relation to the previous study of Wühr and Seegelke (2018), is identified and well discussed. Since the present study, compared to Wühr and Seegelke (2018), added kinematic parameters, in my opinion it could be very relevant for the reader to understand the rationale behind these measures. In other words, I suggest authors to specify better the hypotheses expected as regard the specific kinematic parameters detected. This could be very helpful also for understanding the findings and the respective discussion.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
If I understand right the results' section, findings demonstrated a compatibilty effect only for RTs and for the time to maximal grip aperture. I think that authors should explain why in the other measures (MTs, peak velocity, time peak velocity, maximal grip aperture) the overall compatibility effect did not emerged and, in some cases, the effect is reversed for the left hand.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In my opinion this study is a very interesting and meaningful replication of previous studies (Wühr & Seegelke, 2018; Ren et al. 2011) in which authors added two important aspects: a visually-guided grasping task and the measure of kinematic parameters. While the first aspect is motivated (authors hypothesized that "interaction effects between different magnitudes might be stronger in a visually guided motor task...") and the finding is well discussed in the general discussion, the second aspect is less deepened (see my comments in the previous sections). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Compatibility between object size and response side in grasping: the left hand prefers smaller objects, the right hand prefers larger objects (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6026v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 10, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
