Review History for Evidence for the Cretaceous shark Cretoxyrhina mantelli feeding on the pterosaur Pteranodon from the Niobrara Formation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evidence for the Cretaceous shark Cretoxyrhina mantelli feeding on the pterosaur Pteranodon from the Niobrara Formation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 18th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 1st, 2018. The first revision was submitted on October 29th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 30th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mark Young
·
Oct 30, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors, Many thanks for your revised manuscript. I hope you continue to use PeerJ as your publication venue in the future. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Andrew Farke, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 29, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mark Young
·
Oct 1, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors, I have accepted the reviewers' recommendation of 'minor revisions'. I look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Dana Ehret ·
Sep 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript is well thought out, and written well aside from a few small typos. It was easy to read, clear and concise. Within my attached review I made comments with regards to English and grammar when needed. One suggestion I have for the authors is to state where and when the specimen is from in the abstract. It is not very clear and would help in future literature searches. The literature references were appropriate and well researched. I recommend the authors reviewing Ehret and Harrell, 2018 (which was just published) and have added a few other suggested papers, but they are not necessary per se. The figures are done well and are consistent with the content of the manuscript. Artist's reconstruction of the potential event, while somewhat fantastical, is wonderful. The author's fully admit that artistic license was taken.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This original manuscript reviews the predation of a pterosaur which is preserved in a specimen from Kansas. The specimen is mentioned on the Oceans of Kansas website, and has been cited in other research papers but it has not been formally researched and described. Due to the fragile nature of pterosaur bones, preservation is not common, in particular specimens with evidence of predation. The authors do a good job describing the specimen and discussing how it came to be. The specimen is likely a composite, however, abundant evidence and citations are given to demonstrate that the vertebrae and shark tooth are a truly associated specimen. In my attached review, I suggest that the authors further investigate the orientation of the shark tooth in the specimen. Thinking about the orientation of the tooth while it was in the shark's mouth, and the mechanics of how the event likely occurred, it lends more support to the authors' conclusions. I also suggest the authors familiarize themselves more with the common terminology of shark teeth. Portions of the description were somewhat confusing. With the few numbers of pterosaur bones present with predation/scavenging marks, this research is an important contribution to the field.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors describe the specimen in full and are conservative with their hypothesis. Their conclusions are well founded and researched.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
See other comments in marked up manuscript. Aside from a few suggestions regarding references and relating tooth orientation to feeding/scavenging event, I am pleased with this report. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Ehret DJ ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evidence for the Cretaceous shark Cretoxyrhina mantelli feeding on the pterosaur Pteranodon from the Niobrara Formation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6031v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
S. Christopher Bennett ·
Sep 28, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Clear and unambiguous, professional English used throughout. Literature references, sufficient field background/context provided. Self-contained with relevant results to hypotheses. Meets standards.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
They describe the specimen, compare it to similar specimens, etc. Interpret the results. Meets standards.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
All seems valid, Cretoxyrhina bit on Pteranodon, and why wouldn't it. The only questionable thing is the acrobatic shark snatching the pterosaur out of the air, which the authors do not suggest was normal feeding mode of Cretoxyrhina.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
See that attached pdf for more detailed comments. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Bennett SC ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Evidence for the Cretaceous shark Cretoxyrhina mantelli feeding on the pterosaur Pteranodon from the Niobrara Formation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6031v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 18, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
