Review History for Bumblebee size polymorphism and worker response to queen pheromone [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Bumblebee size polymorphism and worker response to queen pheromone To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 20th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 3rd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on September 9th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 9th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dezene Huber
·
Sep 9, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your rebuttal and revised MS. I have read your rebuttal and revised MS and you have addressed all of the minor revisions specified by the two reviewers. The revised MS is now acceptable for publication following copyediting, etc. Please consider making the review history of this MS public, as doing that serves to add value to the publication in general.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 9, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dezene Huber
·
Sep 3, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for submitting your MS to PeerJ. I have received both reviews, and both reviewers have suggested minor revisions. Having read the paper myself, I agree with their assessments and I believe that the author can respond adequately to these comments and suggestions.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 26, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
All fine, perhaps the effect of worker size on oocyte production and pheromone effects in other social insects could be briefly reviewed.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Just two points that need more information: The introduction and discussion seem to imply that the colonies used here already passed the competition point. If that was so, it should be clearly stated and also be explained how that was verified. As comparing worker castes is a focus of the study, I think the exact meaning of the worker sizes should be discussed in more detail. The author defines them as percentiles of the colony. This is fine, but I think it is important to know how much size overlap might have been there between classes ACROSS colonies, since this will influence how reliable a negative result such as “worker size has no impact on queen pheromone effect” is. By the way, what determines worker size – is it related to something like colony age?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Ok, but see comments on the experimental design
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a well-written paper reporting a study on the effect of the bumblebee queen pheromone on worker oocyte production. The results confirm findings of an earlier paper and add new information on the effect on workers of different sizes. Also, the paper shows that the pheromone is not only effective small colonies, but in mature colonies as well. I think this study deserves to be published, and I have only two “major” comments that can surely be addressed without problems. The introduction and discussion seem to imply that the colonies used here already passed the competition point. If that was so, it should be clearly stated and also be explained how that was verified. As comparing worker castes is a focus of the study, I think the exact meaning of the worker sizes should be discussed in more detail. The author defines them as percentiles of the colony. This is fine, but I think it is important to know how much size overlap might have been there between classes ACROSS colonies, since this will influence how reliable a negative result such as “worker size has no impact on queen pheromone effect” is. By the way, what determines worker size – is it related to something like colony age? I'd also spend fewer words justifying why experiments should be independently repeated. This is true and deserves a few lines, but it's not the paper's main point. Focus on what's new instead and document that in more detail. Details: l 59-73 So much space spent on why replicates are important – can't this be shortened? l 90 how many workers per colony? L 93-96 are there any papers on the change of queen chcs around the competition point? Did colonies in your study already reach the competition point? L 113 I think it's “Aldrich” l 113: how does the pheromone dose used here relate to the natural concentration in a queenright colony, or to the amount found on a single queen? L 123-125 are there any objective measures of worker sizes, at least ranges? Were all large workers of all colonies larger than medium workers from all colonies? I guess my question is how stable size classes were across colonies. Although the size classes differed in oocyte numbers, you did not find an influence of size on the pheromone effect. Could any potential effect be obscured by size classes being not clearly defined? L 149-151 wouldn't that have been accounted for by the glmm anyway? Results: an estimate of variation due to colony differences might be interesting Figure: As kernel density plots aren't that common in behavioural biology, I think the figure needs more explanation. In particular, people will be confused as to why the x-axis is random. L 155-156 Are are there other studies on pheromone effects according to size/caste, perhaps in other social insects? I know there is data on ovary development depending on size, e.g. Dijkstra & Boomsma 2008, Oikos 117: 1892-1906 Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Bumblebee size polymorphism and worker response to queen pheromone (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.604v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Chris Cutler ·
Sep 3, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This article fulfills the PeerJ requirements for “scientific and methodological soundness”. The question addressed is important, and the methods are relatively simple but appropriate for the hypotheses of interest. Use of a range of concentrations would have been preferable to generate a dose-response, but I appreciate that this comes with logistical constraints. I agree with the author’s contention that repetition of experiments is important for validation, and yet the paper does have novel aspects to it (e.g. effect of C25 on size). I have only minor comments and suggestions below. Specific comments 1.L113. What is the biological relevance or rationale for the treatment concentration of 0.01 ug/ul? 2.L113. Is the Sigma chemical coding in reference to the hexane or C25? The code is different from that for hexane on L114. i.e. clarify that the same kind/grade of hexane was used in both treatments. 3.L115. What kind of pollen? Source of pollen? 4.L118. Are we to assume that exposure to C25/hexane was through contact with the contact? Add statement to clarify. 5.L123-127. Why did you score size of bees? It is highly preferable to use continuous data since rank data are so subjective, and this would have been easily done by weighing the bees on a balance. Also, when ranking of individual bees was done, did you randomize within and across colonies to counter changes in your scoring over time? 6.L139-141. I see nothing in Fig 1 to suggest that C25 had any effect on the frequency of workers with oocytes; the raw data and violin plots appear to be evenly distributed on either side of the x-axis (‘density’, which I assume is the same as frequency/proportion) in both treatments. The last part of this sentence simply repeats what was said earlier and can be removed. 7.L160. Change “constant across colony life stages” to “constant among different sized workers”. 8.L160-162. I don’t understand how the results of the current study relate to this statement. 9.L176: Change to “…I found no…” 10.Fig 1. The x-axis title is ambiguous. Would “sample frequency” or “proportion of workers” be better? Cite this review as
Cutler C ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Bumblebee size polymorphism and worker response to queen pheromone (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.604v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 20, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
