Review History for Morphological identification and molecular confirmation of the deep-sea blue and red shrimp Aristeus antennatus larvae [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Morphological identification and molecular confirmation of the deep-sea blue and red shrimp Aristeus antennatus larvae To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 7th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 9th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on October 23rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 5th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
James Reimer
·
Nov 5, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have gone over the manuscript, and it has been well-revised. Thank you for your hard work, and I look forward to seeing the published version of this work. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Rob Toonen, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 23, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Reimer
·
Sep 9, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have heard back from two reviewers, who were generally positive about your work while recommending many constructive improvements. In particular, please pay attention to reviewer 1's third comment on experimental design; this must be addressed in any revision. I look forward to receiving your revised version.
label_author_1
Heather Bracken-Grissom ·
Sep 7, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is very well written and fills an important knowledge gap in decapod morphology and ecology. The identification of larval stages across decapods is still lacking for most species, so these types of papers that use BOTH morphological and molecular methods for larvae-adult matching are very important. I would suggest the authors add the reference below to line 88-89. Bracken-Grissom, H.D., Felder, D.L., Volmer, N., Martin, J. and K.A. Crandall. 2012. Phylogenetics Links Monster Larva to Deep-Sea Shrimp. Ecology and Evolution. 2(10): 2367-2373.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design was well-designed and executed. I would like to see a few additions before this paper is accepted for publications: 1.Why did the authors use different genes (COI vs. 16S) for the protozoea I pool and all known larval stages? Both are sufficient for DNA barcoding, however I find it strange to switch from one marker to the next. An explanation should be provided. 2.As I am sure the authors are familiar with the presence of pseudogenes, especially within COI, so I would insist there is mention to how the authors examined the sequences for the presence and removal of pseudogenes in the COI data. 3.Lastly, and most importantly, the larval-adult matching studies only work if a reliable ADULT specimen is available for larval matching. GenBank is absolutely rampant with identification errors. I would like to see the authors provide an expanded and clearly written explanation as to why they are 100% confident in the adult identifications used to match the larvae. I noticed that a co-author is cited at the end of line 195 (also on the present paper) but an expanded justification about the morphological confirmation of adults is needed. Also, several of the GenBank numbers provided in the line 194-195 are either 1) unpublished or 2) not released. This also makes me feel very uneasy, without expansion on this. For example, JX403858 is NOT from Roldan et al. so the appropriate papers needs to also be cited. I do warn caution from my own experience.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Once an expanded justification on the adults identification is expanded the findings are valid.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall, I think this is a very valuable paper that can advance the field of fisheries and decapod taxonomy. Cite this review as
Bracken-Grissom H ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Morphological identification and molecular confirmation of the deep-sea blue and red shrimp Aristeus antennatus larvae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6063v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 8, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I was interested in reading the manuscript PeerJ-29455 regarding the morphological and molecular confirmarion of the larval stage PZI of Aristeus antennatus. The topic is interesting and the approach, based on mprphological and molecular studies offer valuable offer to the literature. The low number of the individuals studied may consist a controversy among the reviewers and other researchers, but - according me - this number reflects the general population's situation. Some references are too old and I suggest to authors to replace them with more recent ones.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is efficient and according the more recent experimental design. The unique gap is the depth of each sampling station (please insert a coloumn in Table 1 indicating the depth of each station). Did the plankton samples of A. antennatus taken from 0,5-1 m? An other point is the missing of Gennadas spp samples in summer. For comparative reasons the coexistence of both species caught in the same period could improve the results of the manuscript.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
In general, it is an interesting manuscript providing novel, detailed information on the larval stages of both species (A. antennatus and G. elegans) and improves the knowledge to the taxinomists and marine biologists. The Discussion is well documented and well stractured.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The paper, however, is unclear in some lines and needs to be clarified before publication. For example, these lines are reported to the depth stratum of the sampling stations, on the absence of Gennadas spp samplings from the summer surveys, some changes in the Introduction. Replace some references which are old Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Morphological identification and molecular confirmation of the deep-sea blue and red shrimp Aristeus antennatus larvae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6063v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 7, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
