Review History for Simultaneous rapid detection of Hantaan virus and Seoul virus using RT-LAMP in rats [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Simultaneous rapid detection of Hantaan virus and Seoul virus using RT-LAMP in rats To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 9th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 18th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on October 8th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 5th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jerson Silva
·
Nov 5, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The changes in the revised manuscript were satisfactory. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 8, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jerson Silva
·
Aug 18, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I fully agree with both reviews that the manuscript requires major revisions. Particularly, the authors should cite previous studies and explain better the novelty of their work.
label_author_1
Lester Perez ·
Jul 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The study proposed by Zhang et al entitled: Simultaneous rapid detection of Hantaan virus and Seoul virus using RT-LAMP in rats, is in line with the state-of-art in the literature since is focused on the development of an isothermal amplification system for the diagnosis. However the novelty of the assay is limited since other report with the same aim has been previously published (Hu et al.2015. J Virol Methods. 2015 Sep 1;221:68-73. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2015.04.017.), In this regards I have found some critical point that I think the authors must address before to accept the manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Following the direction of the OIE manual and WHO manual for the validation of diagnostic assays based on amplification of nucleic acid the analytical sensitivity of the assay to be developed needs to be assessed in the same clinical samples where assay is expected to detect the agent. For this reason, I strongly recommend to the author that they must show the sensitivity of the new assay in clinical samples and not in distilled water, since this approach is not correct.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Some critical point are missing such as: 1-Analytical sensitivity determined on clinical material where the assay is addressed (not in distilled water) 2-Analytical specificity showing the assay can amplify hantavirus regardless the gentic diversity (representative member from the main four clades) 3-A analytical comparison between the new assay and the previously reported by Hu et al.2015. J Virol Methods. 2015 Sep 1;221:68-73. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2015.04.017.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The study proposed by Zhang et al entitled: Simultaneous rapid detection of Hantaan virus and Seoul virus using RT-LAMP in rats, is in line with the state-of-art in the literature since is focused on the development of an isothermal amplification system for the diagnosis. However the novelty of the assay is limited since other report with the same aim has been previously published, In this regards I have found some critical point that I think the authors must address before to accept the manuscript. Major comments: 1-Another RT-LAMP for simultaneous detection of Hanta virus and seoul virus has been published in 2015, an experimental comparison between both assays showing advantages and disadvantages of the new proposed assay is needed. This comparison will allow to the reader to understand why a new assay based on the same principle that the previously reported is needed in the scientific literature. 2-Te authors designed the primers based on GQ279392.1 GenBank strains however considering the genetic diversity of Hantavirus members four distinctive clades are described. Based on a vast number of reports about RT-LAMP assays, is well know that the hybridization of B3 and BIP primers are critical for the isothermal amplification. Therefore in order to guarantee that the assay really amplify these other clades of hantavirus the author must follow two directions: i) show at least in supplementary information with an alignment of sequences including sequences from the diverse clades of Hantavirus members others than the used for the primers design, ii)use in the analytical specificity of the assays representative strains from these clades, to guarantee that not only in silico but in vitro the assay can specifically amplify diverse genetic background into the Hantavirus. 3-Following the direction of the OIE manual and WHO manual for the validation of diagnostic assays based on amplification of nucleic acid the analytical sensitivity of the assay to be developed needs to be assessed in the same clinical samples where assay is expected to detect the agent. For this reason, I strongly recommend to the author that they must show the sensitivity of the new assay in clinical samples and not in distilled water, since this approach is not correct. Considering the elements provided above I am willing to review a new version of the manuscript with the needed amends, however in the current form I can not accept the manuscript for its publication. Cite this review as
Perez L ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Simultaneous rapid detection of Hantaan virus and Seoul virus using RT-LAMP in rats (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6068v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 17, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is written in generally correct language, but somewhat confusing, with figures being called out of numerical order in the text, and some important issues are touched all too briefly, and should deserve more attention for the sake of clarity. Literature review has important gaps. It is important that authors consider and discuss results previously published by others, based on studies that were conducted in the same country. For example, a very careful study was published by Hu D et al. in 2015, on the "Development of reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification assays to detect Hantaan virus and Seoul virus" (Journal of Virological Methods 221: 68–73, 2015). The lack of mention to that study is suggestive of carelessness in the literature review. The sensitivity of that assay was 10 copies (similar to PCR) for HTNV, and 100 copies for SEOV (ten-fold less than qPCR). These comparisons deserve mention. Legends for figures are poor and some are impossible to understand entirely for lack of explanation.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Methods are insufficiently described.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The information is important, but it is still unclear how it relates to previous very similar studies.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper addresses the very important issue of developing sensitive and specific methods for the direct detection of the Old World hantaviruses Hantaan and Seoul in rats. However, the authors failed to make clear the reasons why their test is better than others, and a more accurate focus on that issue is needed. Certain other issues deserve clarification. Major concerns: 1-What hand-foot-and-mouth causing virus was used? Coxsackie? What type? (line 99) 2-How were the lungs of infected rats obtained? It is not enough to mention that they came to the authors from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, but how were they obtained, preserved, and handled. 3-Line 210: text reads: "....in addiiton to isothermy." Sentence is too telegraphic, and it should explain why is that advantageous. 4-Figure 3 is called after figure 4, and has no explicative legend. Nobody knows what is in the tubes, and on the gel of panels B and C, respectively. 5-Lines 186-187 and Figure 4: The text says "selected as the optimal condition because of the higher specificity and enzyme inhibition at higher temperatures", but it is unclear how that was based on the curves n figure 4, since the 65 degrees curve looks almost the sabe as 66, for example. Some curves looked to be almost the same. 6-Figure 2 requires more clear legend to clarify that the tubes on panel B correspond to the viruses in the lagend of panel A. 7-Legend of figure 5 is utterly improper and unclear. Which positive samples in the curves correspond to the tubes? The comment about disagreement between tests should appear in the Results text, and not thrown in the legend of figure 5. 8-A comment should be made on the cost of this assay as compared to PCR. Minor issues: Line 70: the word 'is' is repeated twice. Table 1, Line 1: Primers for the S gene. Line 136: measured at 6-s intervals. Line 160: I presume it should read "positive control plasmid pGEM-S was used along with every tested batch". Line 182: HS-72 were selected as optimal primers. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Simultaneous rapid detection of Hantaan virus and Seoul virus using RT-LAMP in rats (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6068v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 9, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
