Review History for Bacterial communities in the digester bed and liquid effluent of a microflush composting toilet system [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Bacterial communities in the digester bed and liquid effluent of a microflush composting toilet system To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 5th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 29th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on November 3rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 6th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Scott Wallen
·
Nov 6, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing all of the concerns of the reviewers in a careful and conscientious manner. The revised manuscript is improved and acceptable for publication. I look forward to seeing your future studies on the GSAP Microflush toilet system. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Valeria Souza, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 3, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Scott Wallen
·
Oct 29, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript was well written and will be acceptable for publication with careful consideration of the reviewers' comments. Each of the points brought up are valid and should be addressed in your revised manuscript. In addition, I would like to see mention of what approach might be used to combat spore forming bacteria you observed at Day 30 (Clostridium XI). Also, I believe the persistence of this gut bacteria should be included within the conclusion. It was very good to see a new approach to evaluating the effectiveness of this type of system through examination of bacterial community populations. I look forward to reading your revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Susan Murcott ·
Sep 26, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
clear and unambiguous professional structure, figs, tables, raw data shared
Experimental design
label_ed_1
original primary research rigorous investigation performed to high technical & ethical standards
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Conclusions are well stated. Data is robust
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a solid research paper and the conclusions make sense. I think the paper deserves publication at this level of detail. Open question for me is the question of at what point the spore forming bacteria of the Clostridium XI which are potentially associated with disease and threats to public health, are they no longer detected. The safety of the microflush composting system would be further verified if we knew the answer to this question. But it might require months or even a year or more of sampling. I would like to see that work done as a follow-on research paper. However, this work is worthy of publication and is well done. It is original and important and worth publication Cite this review as
Murcott S ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Bacterial communities in the digester bed and liquid effluent of a microflush composting toilet system (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6077v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is well written with clear structure and use of English language. The manuscript touches upon a lesser known and relevant aspect of such systems. The microbial community is both an indicator of the function of the system as well as its efficiency to remove pathogens. However several aspects in building a case for the study needs to be better emphasized. (1)Please update the statistics and reference for the line 44 to 49. It is usually better to use the JMP reports since these are the most up-to-date and is the source of all the information used across the UN publications. There is a 2017 progress report. (2)The system that is under study was designed for rural areas but no information was given as to why it focusses on rural areas. Is it because of the space requirement? Is because they are behind urban sanitation in using safely managed sanitation? Please provide a case on why it is necessary. (3)The paragraph starting at Line 77 seems to be pointing to studies done within the group on this particular system? This is not immediately clear. Please emphasize this other wise you need to update the literature as there are more recent studies on e.g. vermicomposting (4)There is no clear hypothesis and no mention of expected microbial community and their importance to the system or expected bacteria based on literature.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
While much emphasis has been places on microbial community analysis which has been clearly described, less is given on the test system and parameters of interest. Thus, the study can be significantly improved if the following is addressed: 1.As stated prior, there is no clear hypothesis, this can help to understand the methodology and findings e.g. why sample liquid for effluent treatment at day 15 and not earlier or later? 2.This may also be clearer if a description or process diagram or even a picture is added to show the design of the ‘pilot scale’ system that is used to generate the results. It is unclear what are the operational parameters used to generate the final treated products and this may have influences on the microbial community. 3.Please report the physico-chemical properties of each sample taken e.g. pH, temp, ammonia, VSS, conductivity etc.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data are well reported. However the lack is description of the pilot set up and operation as well as the properties of the samples prevented the authors from identifying areas for further work as well as provide inferences. Some speculations were provided but no information was used to support the speculations for example, no information was provided on the microbial community that was in the conditioned system prior to this experiment. Further, as far as I can tell, the experiments were done only once without repetition. If these were included, the study could potentially be improved. Specific comments includes: 1.Please clearly name the samples take at day 0 for the ‘liquid’ portion or effluent and the sample taken at day 15 for the liquid treatment processes. It is a bit confusing as to which samples you are talking about in 376-380 and 319-321. 2.Line 404 change ‘the’ to ‘to’.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Bacterial communities in the digester bed and liquid effluent of a microflush composting toilet system (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6077v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 5, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
