Review History for A cross-sectional study of self-reported general health, lifestyle factors, and disease: the Hordaland Health Study [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A cross-sectional study of self-reported general health, lifestyle factors, and disease: the Hordaland Health Study To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 22nd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 2nd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on September 9th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 15th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Søren Bentzen
·
Sep 15, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Congratulations with a well-conducted and well reported study.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 9, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Søren Bentzen
·
Sep 2, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I concur with the reviewers that this is an important study but that there are a few minor amendments that would improve the clarity of the presentation.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 14, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
" No comments"
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Please provide reference to the HUSK study. Did the participants fill out the questionnaire before or after the examination? Please provide a little bit more information about the data collection. Please provide more information on the validity of the one item self-reported health question as well as reference(s).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Were the results that women and those living alone in this age group had poorer health surprising or were these results in line with previous research? In the discussion line 136: With reference to the study by Naess et al from 2005; this study is to old to be characterized as “recent”. Please change to “previous” as only the study by Riise et al from 2014 is recent. In the limitations part it should be discussed how the population aged 40-44 might limit the generalizability of the results from this study. This in particular in respect to implications regarding relationship to diseases as few in this age population had any of the diseases. In addition it should be discussed that diseases might have different impact on self-reported health depending on one’s age group. The conclusion should state what new knowledge this paper adds; e.g. the associations between lifestyle and health in a relatively young population where the consequences of poor lifestyle to a quite small extent have resulted in severe diseases.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Congratulations with a well written and well performed study. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "A cross-sectional study of self-reported general health, lifestyle factors, and disease: the Hordaland Health Study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.609v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Magnus Strømmen ·
Aug 25, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Line 141: “extra-personal explanatory factors”: I easily understand what you mean, but is there a more common expression for this? I suggest rephrasing the sentence. Line 161: The common expression is “units of alcohol”, not “units of spirits”. The latter is also misleading to the behavior of interest. Line 203-205: The word “demonstration” is wrong. Table 2: Look to the rows explaining physical activity: The data do not correspond to the correct labels in the left column.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Design is adequate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors found that being a former smoker actually implied better self-rated health compared to those who had never smoked (reference group). The change in OR is small, although statistically significant at least in the univariate model. This may surprise some readers (me included), and a reflection from the authors would be welcome. One perspective on this is that we expect to see almost a linear inverse relationship between smoking and self-rated health. Another question that may arise is related to the validity of the rawdata: What is a former smoker? Did the questionnaire provide a definition of this? Are those who smoked occasionally at college twenty years ago in this category? I acknowledge the complexity of this and assume there is no straight forward answer, but if the authors have any opinion, that could be included in the Discussion. The authors anticipate some criticism concerning that the data origins from the late nineties. I do not find this a limitation to a study with this aim and design. The authors' comments explaining recent changes in tobacco use, alcohol consumption and physical activity are strictly not necessary, but of course of interest when deducing secondary information from the study to say something about how the situation is today.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I question the use of Meyer & Tverdals paper on body weight as long as you only use this to refer to BMI and prevalence. There is more recent data on this, e.g. Midthjell et al. "Trends in overweight and obesity over 22 years in a large adult population" (2013) which also is based upon a representative sample. I have spent some time thinking about the authors’ use of the term ‘prediction’. In line 134-137 they refer to how self-rated health is a predictor of mortality, diabetes and lung cancer. Is this use of the term correct? Doesn’t this imply some causal relationship between the variable and the outcome? Yes, there is solid basis to say there is a relationship, but prediction for me is also about causality. And does the studies you refer to give a basis to say there is? Cite this review as
Strømmen M ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "A cross-sectional study of self-reported general health, lifestyle factors, and disease: the Hordaland Health Study (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.609v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 22, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
