Review History for Founder effects drive the genetic structure of passively dispersed aquatic invertebrates [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Founder effects drive the genetic structure of passively dispersed aquatic invertebrates To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 24th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 25th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on November 8th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 12th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Nov 12, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Montero-Pau and colleagues: Thanks for re-submitting your manuscript to PeerJ, and for addressing the concerns raised by the reviewers. I now believe that your manuscript is suitable for publication. Congratulations! I look forward to seeing this work in print, and I anticipate it being an important resource for ecologists and evolutionary geneticists studying aquatic invertebrates. Thanks again for choosing PeerJ to publish such important work. -joe # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Ann Hedrick, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 8, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Sep 25, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Montero-Pau and colleagues: Thanks for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. I apologize for the lengthy time in review, but we needed more time than usual to find reviewers. I have now received two independent reviews of your work, and as you will see, both are very favorable. Well done! Nonetheless, the reviewers raised some relatively minor concerns about the research, and areas where the manuscript can be improved. Please note that reviewer 2 has included a marked-up version of the manuscript in his review. Therefore, I am recommending that you revise your manuscript accordingly, taking into account all of the issues raised by the reviewers. I do believe that your manuscript will be ready for publication once these issues are addressed. Good luck with your revision, -joe
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 4, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Line 56: "Predicting the outcome of these factors…" What are 'these factors'? Are you refering to the two listed in the previous sentence, or the whole set listed in the first paragraph? LIne 59: "dispersing" The verb tense seems wrong to me. But, this could be a matter of style. In general, there is an excessive use of ambiguous pronouns to start sentences. Using words like 'it', 'these', 'they', and so on decreases comprehension by the reader. Ambiguous pronouns are used abundantly throughout the MS and I strongly suggest that the authors edit their MS to specifically remove these words, especially when they are used in the begining of a sentence. Lines 103-108: In this final paragraph of the introduction, the authors outline what they did. It would be nice to follow those enumerated sentences with a few sentences about what they found. What are the main take-aways? Line 117: "which are major taxonomic groups in the zooplankton". This phrase would imply that zooplankton are themselves a proper taxanomic group which (emphasis on the word 'the'), of course, they are not.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall, I found this paper to be interesting and well thought out. I do not have any substantial comments on it and I look forward to seeing it published. I believe that it will be useful for the field. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Founder effects drive the genetic structure of passively dispersed aquatic invertebrates (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6094v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 23, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The MS is clear and well documented. Figures are easily understandable and of good quality. The MS could nonetheless be checked further by an English native as some sentences read awkward to me (I'm not an English native, I can hence be wrong).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The question is extremely well posed and is relevant. The authors used a simulation-approach to tackle the question and the simulation design is very good to me. Notably, the set of parameters is well defined and well argumented. My only worry concern the use of a single founding individual (although other scenarios are simulated); to me authors should justify it better, and/or include further results for other scenarios. For instance, authors could easily confront results from 1 vs. 20 founder for some figures to clearly show what the impact of increasing the number of founders is. They argue that 1 founder is a likely scenario for instance for glacial lakes, but there are many other scenarios where I guess 20 founders is also likely.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
That's a good and interesting paper. I have easily read it, it is easy to follow and it tackle a fascinating question. Although I'm not a specialist, the methodology and overall simulation design seem robust to me (but see my comment about the scenario of a single founder). I have provided some comments and some corrections in an attached file. Two of these comments should be seriously considered by the authors: one concern some results that sounds illogical to me (but authors may have an explanation, and/or I may have missed something) and the other concerns the choice of presenting only the results with a single founder. I'm sure you'll be able to easily deal with these comments. Good luck Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Founder effects drive the genetic structure of passively dispersed aquatic invertebrates (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6094v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 24, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
