Review History for Remote sensing tree classification with a multilayer perceptron [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Remote sensing tree classification with a multilayer perceptron To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 1st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 16th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on November 9th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 12th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alison Boyer
·
Nov 12, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks you for your thoughtful attention to the reviewers' comments. I believe your work is an excellent contribution to the collection of papers in response to the NIST-NEON remote-sensing classification challenge. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Dezene Huber, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 9, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alison Boyer
·
Aug 16, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I enjoyed reading this paper comparing several methods for tree classification. As both of the reviewers noted, though, the paper should be expanded to add context, especially the intro and discussion. There were also numerous grammatical/terminology issues and missing citations.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is generally clear but is a bit too concise. It would be good to include in the Introduction a bit of background regarding current progress and challenges in the field of spectral classification of trees. The study and results are represented well by the figures, but I recommend minor edits. For Figure 1, include in the figure caption the genera that are abbreviated. For Figure 2, include two more panels to illustrate accuracy within genus and species (variation by genus and species is of interest, as some genera and species might be more accurately classified than others).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
A few important details are missing from Methods section. There is no information regarding the tree dataset (how many samples per species) and any data splitting (for training/testing of classifications). The reader also needs the information regarding evaluation metrics used in the competition (rank accuracy and cross-entropy).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The accuracy values are a bit difficult to assess in terms of significance because they are provided at the genus level and species level as averages, I think. I expected genus (5) and species (9) specific accuracy values to be reported, in two matrices (for genus level and for species level analysis). The Discussion section is too short and does not go into the details of the results of this study. It needs to be further developed to highlight the findings of this study and their importance in the context of previous work in the field of tree identification from hyperspectral imagery.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript can be strengthened by expanding the Introduction and Discussion sections. I noticed that the authors use “predicted” instead of “classified” when referring to identifying tree genera or species. I suggest revising the use of predicted, predictions, etc. Abstract: Line 15: insert “two” before algorithms Line 16: spell out MLP acronym Line 21: is 68.8% the average accuracy value, over all 9 species? Please clarify. Introduction: Lines 23-27: citations needed in this paragraph Line 40: “task III” is not relevant in this context, could revise as “one of the tasks”; also, need to include here a paragraph about current progress and problems in the field of tree mapping from hyperspectral data Line 41: lidar stands for “light detection and ranging”; also here and elsewhere in the manuscript, use LiDAR or lidar spelling (not LIDAR). Materials and Methods: Line 50: mention location of NEON data (repository, if readers want to download these data). Line 57: Marconi et al citation is missing publication year. Line 58: the section Algorithm Training can me merged into the next section, Classification Algorithms. Line 59: mention that the function is python Line 65: cite “Other studies” Line 71: Scholkopf et al is missing publication year Line 72: the word frequently is repeated in this sentence Lines 75-80: citations needed in this paragraph Line 76: “k features” is unclear to me – what are features in this context? Line 80: “each tree in the forest” – the use of forest in this context is ambiguous; I think it refers to plants (trees), not classification algorithm; then could be reworded as “each tree species in the forest” Lines 85-89: this paragraph needs citations Lines 99-104: this explanation is a bit abstract – is it possible to explain (briefly) the implications of these parameters? Line 117: Marconi et al citation is missing publication year; same thing in line 141 (Results( Discussion Needs to be further developed; discuss the significance of your results; include the context of previous research. Also, remove “wasn’t” (lines 146 and 151), and reword “hyperspectral images provide the highest accuracy” because it seems vague (highest among other types of imagery?) line 270: reword “showed different within…” Conclusions: line 334: reword “wasn’t” Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Remote sensing tree classification with a multilayer perceptron (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6101v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 14, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this manuscript the authors compared two traditional classification algorithms (SVM,RF) with a neural-network based method (MLP). The authors have also implemented a clever way of aggregating the pixel-level classification to the tree crown level using an ensemble-based method. This should be of value for other remote sensing applications as well. The introduction section is very brief and do not provide enough context to the study. For example, the authors can discuss previous literatures on species classification, on hyperspectral and LiDAR, and highlight what has been done, what are the key issues and how the current work tries to solve it. The authors can also discuss here why the specific algorithms were selected for this work (SVM, RF, and MLP).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors compared the RF and SVM classification algorithms with the MLP – yet have nowhere in the manuscript described what the MLP algorithm is or cite any related literature that does so.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The manuscript reports cross-validation classification accuracies for species and genera (Figure 2) but does not report how the algorithms performed with the test samples (30% of the samples were provided as the test by the competition). I feel that the discussion section can be improved.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Lines 58-61: Please briefly describe how k-fold cross validation works. Line 65. Please cite which “other studies” that have shown MLP is better for tree classification. Line 71: Missing year in Scholkopf et al. Lines 69-74: SVM is also widely used in patterns in remote sensing data! It would be more relevant and interesting to readers to cite the literatures that applies SVM in remote sensing/tree classification than the application in RNA expression Line 91. Define ‘hyperparameters’ Line 117. Missing year in Marconi et al. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Remote sensing tree classification with a multilayer perceptron (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6101v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 1, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
