Review History for Characterization of the mitochondrial genome of Arge bella Wei & Du sp. nov. (Hymenoptera: Argidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Characterization of the mitochondrial genome of Arge bella Wei & Du sp. nov. (Hymenoptera: Argidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 2nd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 19th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on November 16th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 19th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Nov 19, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Du and colleagues: Thanks for re-submitting your manuscript to PeerJ, and for addressing the concerns raised by the reviewers. I now believe that your manuscript is suitable for publication. Congratulations! I look forward to seeing this work in print, and I anticipate it being an important resource for hymenopterists with interests in mitochondrial genomics. Thanks again for choosing PeerJ to publish such important work. -joe # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Elena Papaleo, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 16, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Oct 19, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Du and colleagues: Thanks for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. I have now received two independent reviews of your work, and as you will see, both are very favorable. Well done! Nonetheless, both reviewers raised some relatively minor concerns about the research, and areas where the manuscript can be improved. A few things in particular: 1) make sure missing references are included in your work, 2) make sure that ALL figures and tables contain all of the information necessary to make them “stand alone”, and that your interpretations of these objects are consistent and accurate, and 3) use "unlinked" branch lengths in PartitionFinder analysis and compare with “linked”. Please also remember that reviewer 2 provided a marked-up version of your manuscript. I agree with the issues raised by the reviewers, and thus feel that their concerns should be adequately addressed before moving forward. Therefore, I am recommending that you revise your manuscript accordingly, taking into account all of the issues raised by the reviewers. I do believe that your manuscript will be ready for publication once these issues are addressed. Good luck with your revision, -joe
label_author_1
Marko Prous ·
Oct 8, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Only few corrections/comments in the attached ms.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Prous M ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Characterization of the mitochondrial genome of Arge bella Wei & Du sp. nov. (Hymenoptera: Argidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6131v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Ertan Korkmaz ·
Oct 15, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript determined one newly mitochondrial genome of the new species Arge bella, presented comparative analyses of this mitogenome with the other known symphytan mitogenomes and presented a phylogenetic analysis of Symphyta based on the mitogenome sequences. The manuscript is clearly written.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
There seems to be no methodological problem.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
There are important results for the field and the findings are well constructed by authors. The findings have been discussed and supported by relevant literature sufficiently.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Here, the manuscript presents the characterisation of the mitochondrial genome of A. bella for the first time. Then the authors aimed to comparison of various genomic features against other reported symphytan species. The most interesting evidence is the presence of rearrangements in tRNA genes. The manuscript presents a newly constructed phylogenetic tree using available symphytan mitochondrial genome to validate the phylogenetic position of the species (A. bella). Some minor changes or comments are listed below: •Line 60: The order of references should be updated. For example, Dowton et al. 2009a should be used at first referenced, not Dowton et al., 2009b. This problem should be checked throughout the manuscript. •Lines 62-63: I could not see the family name Heptameliidae in ECatSym database as well as the current literatures. •Line 164: The authors should use "unlinked" branch lengths in the analysis with PartitionFinder. When we prefer "linked" branch lengths, we're assuming that the relative rates of evolution among lineages in the tree are constant across partitions. However, with "unlinked" branch lengths, not only can the partitions have different overall rates of evolution, but also the relative rates of evolution among lineages can differ between partitions. •Lines 247-249: The authors should explain the likely reasons of this failure together with the relevant literature. •Line 263: When looking Table 2, Leu, Ile, Phe, Met, Ser seem to be most frequently used amino acids rather than indicated by the authors. •Line 304: When examining the related figure, it seems to have three domains. Was it wrongly denoted, or not, please give more explanation about this new domain. As taking into consideration the relevant literature, the predicted secondary structure of insect rrnS gene seems to have three domains. The remaining minor corrections are shown on the manuscript. In my opinion, the manuscript could be published in the journal PeerJ after minor revision. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Korkmaz EM ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Characterization of the mitochondrial genome of Arge bella Wei & Du sp. nov. (Hymenoptera: Argidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6131v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Oct 17, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Du et al. have sequenced the mitochondrial genome of Arge bella and compare with others. Totally the paper has been analysed and written in good order. it is including new information of mitochondrial genome of Arge bella. The hypotheses of paper is unclear and it need to explain clearly in the last paragraph of INTRODUCTION, especially when the paper is a comparative study (Just the text needs to revise)
Experimental design
label_ed_3
It is an Original primary research and the METHODS AND MATERIALS have been clearly explained and designed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
This paper give new information about mitochondrial genome of Arge bella.
Comments for the author
There is a major scientific question that should be reconsider by authors. In the title, Arge bella was mentioned as new species (sp. nov.). It means this is the first time that this name used and author discussed about its taxonomical status for first time. But in page 4 line 179, this species was referred to "Arge bella Wei & Du sp. nov." if Wei & Du have described this species before this paper so "sp. nov." should be removed from title otherwise line 179 should be revised. in Fig. 7: Generally values of Bayesian posterior probabilities were mentioned in the range of 0 to 1. I suggest authors follow in this way. In Tab 3. I suggest the column of Anticodon replace with Codon In Tab 3. I suggest J and M replace with H (Heavy) and L (Light) Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #3 of "Characterization of the mitochondrial genome of Arge bella Wei & Du sp. nov. (Hymenoptera: Argidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6131v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 2, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
