Review History for Optimal control of irrupting pest populations in a climate-driven ecosystem [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Optimal control of irrupting pest populations in a climate-driven ecosystem To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 28th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 1st, 2018. The first revision was submitted on November 20th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 21st, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Donald Kramer
·
Nov 21, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have carefully considered the suggestions provided and clearly outlined their changes. The manuscript is now suitable for publication. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Patricia Gandini, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 20, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Donald Kramer
·
Nov 1, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I commend the authors on an exceptionally clear and well-written manuscript. Both reviewers found the approach valid and results convincing and suggested only very minor corrections. I apologize for the delay in completing my review. The manuscript arrived at the same time as several others and at a busy time for me personally, resulting in a substantial backlog.
label_author_1
Kevin Cazelles ·
Oct 10, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In this manuscript, Holland and colleagues expand a previous model of consumer population dynamics with pulsed resources the authors investigated in 2015 (Holland et al. 2015) in order to study the optimal control of irrupting pest population (case study being the broad-scale control of house mice outbreaks in New Zealand). The authors convincingly show that the control level (*i.e.* the number of baits) impacts both the plague size (*i.e.* the "highest mouse density during the plague period") and the plague time (*i.e.* the "proportion of time during which the mouse density is above the plague level") whereas the timing of annual control only affects the plague size. Moreover, the authors demonstrate that alternative strategies with similar cost such as a biannual-seedfall driven control can have similar or better results. According to me, the manuscript is very clear, well-structured and scientifically sound. I only have minor comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Overall the methods are very well explained, the authors did a great effort to detail the model as well as its underlying assumptions. Below are a couple of suggestions: - Equation 1: I think B should be B(t) as it is time-dependent. - l. 150: I would explicit the total mortality rate. - l. 154: in 2015, the authors explored 4 functional responses, I suggest they mention that based on their previous study they chose Holling II. - regarding the bait, I found it hard to picture how the unit used relate to the unit for mice - l. 192: - I would mention that it is assume to follow a Normal distribution - why using a standard deviation of 1 instead of the standard deviation of the time series? - l.194 I would write "Orongorongo Valley (hereafter OV)" - l. 206: I would stress out that plague here does not have a specific biological meaning (unless I'm wrong), it is rather a convenient reference point to compare scenarios.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
To me, findings are valid and unambiguous. I have two comments: - Table 2, caption "[...] the minimum expected plague time and plague years across the different regimes are shown in bold text." Why not doing so for the plague size? - Figure 1, bottom panel: tick labels are missing.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I would change a few sentences in the introduction and in the abstract to better introduce the example that inspires the model. If I am right, the model is inspired by the house mice dynamics in New Zealand but is thought as a general one. I think this is fair, I would however make this slightly more explicit as I far as I understand, the model has only been validated on this case study. Cite this review as
Cazelles K ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Optimal control of irrupting pest populations in a climate-driven ecosystem (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6146v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
John Fryxell ·
Oct 15, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript is tightly written and quite clear in outlining modifications to the underlying seasonal mast-driven mouse model first described in Holland et al (2015), with one exception: the double set of inequalities shown in eq 4 seem impossible to satisfy. Perhaps this reflects a typo? The extensive literature cited section is appropriate and well-linked to the text. Figures are clear and easy to follow, as are the tabular data. The results are well-linked to objectives stated in the introduction.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This ms reports on applied population control extension of a previously published model of stochastic seasonal mouse dynamics in New Zealand beech forests. Objectives were to identify the most effective combination of timing and minimal (yet effective) application of pesticide to prevent house mouse outbreaks and their consequent damage to beech forests. Rodent control is an applied ecological problem of considerable concern, but is rarely based on bottom-up driven models of convincing robustness, so the modeling work fills an important gap in the literature and will no doubt be widely cited. The modelling work is based on straightforward modification of a plausible and well-validated consumer-resource model published 3 years earlier. While code was unfortunately not included, my judgement is that it would be simple to replicate the model.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The conclusions seem to be well-justified, given the well-validated empirical model framework. My only editorial suggestion is that it would be helpful to clarify why any population density above the median of 2/100 trap nights is defined as a "plague" instead of simply being above the long-term average. It also wasn't clear why the authors restrict their attention to applying pesticide just once a year or once every 2 years in a single massive dose rather than in multiple smaller doses triggered by biomonitoring of either beech mast or mice. In other words: why just these control measures?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I congratulate the authors on a well-formulated and useful modelling paper. I'm sure it will be well-received. Cite this review as
Fryxell J ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Optimal control of irrupting pest populations in a climate-driven ecosystem (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6146v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 28, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
