Review History for Using the wax moth larva Galleria mellonella infection model to detect emerging bacterial pathogens [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Using the wax moth larva Galleria mellonella infection model to detect emerging bacterial pathogens To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 19th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 12th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on November 21st, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 23rd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Todd Anderson
·
Nov 23, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your efforts in addressing reviewer comments and revising your manuscript. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Dezene Huber, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 21, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Todd Anderson
·
Nov 12, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers were overall complimentary of your work. They have suggested some relatively minor revisions that hopefully you will consider making as appropriate.
label_author_1
Freya Harrison ·
Oct 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Clear, well-referenced and well structured presentation of fundamental science. Fig S1: Please could the authors add labels for location key at the end of each line on the graphs, I’m finding it impossible to match most the lines to the boxplots on Fig S2 by colour vision alone, a lot of the shades are very similar. Proteus clone: I thought it was very interesting that this clone turned the Galleria brown instead of black, could this be noted in the main text as well as in the SI? I don't know what it signifies, but it may be something that another reader recognises as diagnostic of a particular virulence mechanism or immune response.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Lines 120-125: I was interested in why the authors decided remove a single drop of haemocoel from the infection site, rather then homogenising the whole larva to sample bacteria from throughout the haemocoel. I guess there are arguments for and against both methods – the method used may fail to sample pathogens which have moved away from the infection site (as systemic infection can proceed rapidly in wax moth larvae), but will reduce sampling of “native” bacteria present in and on the larvae. As homogenisation of whole worms seems to be more typically used in the literature, please could the authors use a couple of sentences to justify their choice of this technique? I guess a lot depends on whether you expect infection to be caused by single pathogen strains present in the environmental samples, or whether high virulence is a function of the sample community. Fig S3 is broadly consistent with the former, which might justify the authors' choice? Also, could the authors specify whether the inclusion criterion for this experiment was melanisation at the infection site, or any melanisation at all?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Results are robust. Raw data is provided.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
A small number of typos: Line 73: “in laboratory” should be “in the laboratory” Line 76: add plural “s” to “supernatant” Line 82: erroneous . after “in” Line 130: missing space after “37°C” Line 188: Citations of Fig S3 and S4 should be Fig S2 and Fig S3, respectively. Line 246: remove – after “environmental” Cite this review as
Harrison F ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Using the wax moth larva Galleria mellonella infection model to detect emerging bacterial pathogens (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6150v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 8, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Clear and unambiguous, professional English used throughout. Literature references, sufficient field background/context provided. Fig 1 it is not sufficiently clear: label on the X-axis (presumably hours ?) is missed on all three graphs. Besides, an interruption on the scale on the second third of the X-axis help to make be more readable the left side of the graf.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Hernandez et al. here report an alternative model of potential use for the screening of environmental pathogens. The idea is interesting and original. nevekess due the higt varibilty of this model
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The idea is interesting and original. l nerveless due to the high variability of this model some concerns must be clarified. as read out the mortality it is weak and not fully appropriate, a scoring scale similar to doi: [10.3390/jof4030108] it wilòl improve the word and the data
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Using the wax moth larva Galleria mellonella infection model to detect emerging bacterial pathogens (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6150v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Nov 9, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The publication of Hernandez et al. describes potential use of Galleria mellonella infectious model to detect pathogens from water. The paper is written in clear unambiguous professional English. The “Introduction” clearly explains research area and provides enough background information which are supported by appropriate references. Another sections are properly structured as well. Figures are relevant to the content and authors also provides 3 figures, row data and 9 tables in supplemental material. I appreciate such amount of data in supplemental material and row data as well, however I would like to suggest authors to include figures from supplemental material to main paper, it would be more clear to reader for better understanding of methodology and results. The authors also should provide better and more detailed description of all supplemental figures.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Methods are well described and provides sufficient details and enough information to replicate. I have only those minor points: Material and methods, line 77: Please write more information about M9 buffet. Please, specify composition of buffer or company which distribute it. Material and methods, Lines 79 – 82. Extraction of bacteria from sediment samples: After twice spinning down of sediment samples (first: 3000 rpm, 2 min; second: 500 rpm, 15 min) you collected supernatant with bacteria. Are you sure that you separated all bacteria from sediment? Is it possible that some of bacteria remained in pellet with sediment particles after spinning of tubes?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Data is robust, statistically clear and well described. I have only one question: How did you analyze results from G. mellonella killing assay? Did you use any statistical program to compare survival of larvae after inoculation of different water samples or different CFU of bacteria? Figure 1. Please, add description of X axes in G. mellonella survival assay. What does X axis represent (hours, or days of survival)? I also suggest to add curve for controls with 100 % of survival as well, it would be better for illustration of the virulence power of each bacteria sample or inoculated CFU.
Comments for the author
The main point of this manuscript is to use invertebrate model organisms Galleria mellonella to detect emerging pathogens. Survival of G. mellonella larvae infected with samples from water and sediment was measured by killing assay. Water samples with the highest lethal impact on larvae has been further identified by another methods confirmed presence of emerging bacterial pathogens and identified their pathogenic potential. Results shown that in vivo model organisms - G. mellonella can be used for such a first screening of pathogens from environmental samples. This method represent easy, low cost and replicable novel approach of testing water from environment. I find this idea very interesting and I have doubt only with some minor points listed upper. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Using the wax moth larva Galleria mellonella infection model to detect emerging bacterial pathogens (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6150v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 19, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
