Review History for Invasion genetics of the mummichog (Fundulus heteroclitus): recent anthropogenic introduction in Iberia [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Invasion genetics of the mummichog ( Fundulus heteroclitus ): recent anthropogenic introduction in Iberia To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 31st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 2nd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on November 14th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 25th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Robert Toonen
·
Nov 25, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have now read through your rebuttal and your revised manuscript, and feel that you have addressed all the concerns to my satisfaction. Thank you for your thorough responses to the referee concerns, and for selecting PeerJ for your submission. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by David Roberts, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 14, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Robert Toonen
·
Oct 2, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I now have reports back from 3 referees, all of whom are enthusiastic about the submission and the value of the work. However, each also point out some issues that could be improved prior to publication, so I am returning a decision of minor revisions. I look forward to reading your revised manuscript once you are able to address these comments.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 27, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is extremely well written, clear and easy to follow. It has the expected structure, and the sequence data is available at Genbank. As a general comment, I think that some parts of the paper are excessively long, and with too many citations. This happens in the Introduction, which could be reduced to include much less information about generalities on biological invasions. The information about Fundulus could be more restricted to genetic studies, but it seems to have the aim of reviewing all the published papers on the species instead. In the discussion there is a similar pattern. Some interesting ideas are discussed, but because it is difficult to reach a conclusion, I would reduce the length of the arguments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Cyt B (even if it was a larger fragment) was not an ideal option for this analysis. The authors should justify such decision, but the results are valid anyway. The inclusion of the ecological niche modelling is weird. I am not an expert, so I cannot correct this part, but even if I think that these results should stay in the paper, I have the impression that they should be more connected with the other results, at least in the discussion.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results are robust, even they don't provide much information. No definitive conclusions can be reached, neither on the origin of the Iberian populations (both northern and southern locations of the native range could be the origin), nor in the relationship between the three invaded sites (all 3 have the same haplotype). I like the ideas in the discussion, but again, I think that they overdiscussed.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I liked the paper. There is an effort in the sampling of the native range, although the results do not reflect it, most likely because cyt B has too low diversity. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Invasion genetics of the mummichog (Fundulus heteroclitus): recent anthropogenic introduction in Iberia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6155v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 1, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript "Invasive genetics of the mummichog (Fundulus heteroclitus): recent anthropogenic introduction in Iberia" aims to assess the invasion history of F. heteroclitus in the southern Iberian Peninsula. The manuscript is well written, well referenced and overall scientifically sound.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question is relevant, however the methods used are not the most up-to-date. The authors made use of only a fragment of the mtDNA, for only three locations. These caveats, however, have been addressed in the discussion. The novelty of the paper resides in the Ecological Niche Modelling approach used. However, this is not explored to its full capacity. I would recommend the authors to change the introduction/results/discussion to increase the focus on ENM. The methodology is thoroughly described, and easily replicable.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings of only one major haplotype in the invaded range seem solid, and congruent with a recent invasion, mediated by a small number of individuals. The conclusions that this was done via aquarium trade might be a bit speculative. I would strongly recommend to increase focus in the ENM.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript "Invasive genetics of the mummichog (Fundulus heteroclitus): recent anthropogenic introduction in Iberia" aims to assess the invasion history of F. heteroclitus in the southern Iberian Peninsula. The manuscript will make a contribution to the field of invasion biology, and I therefore recommend it to publication pending minor changes. Minor comments: line 51: there are reports of over line 51: of which, 237 line 53: they are recognized as one of line 75: remove extra paragraph line 79: remove the between reconstruct and invasive line 83: remove "all fulfilled for Fundulus heteroclitus" as the species is only introduced in the paragraph below line 93: Fundulus in full at the beginning of the sentence line 95: the presence of line 106, 112, 116: add comma after ) lines 128-132: Although there is some interest in this study using only these aims, it is the ENM approach described in the methods that increase the novelty of this study. Please re-focus the introduction to reflect this angle. line 156: remove the sequence of the primers, as they are described somewhere else lines 182-219: This approach is not referred to in the introduction, and is not one of cited aims of the manuscript. Please include it, and the motivation behind itli line 230: Figure 2 is referenced before Figure 1 - that should be changed line 232: Figure 1a and 1b are not referenced in the text lines 250-252: I recommend to expand this section, and elaborate on the findings of the ENM line 280: This can be explored further. Either via ABC estimates of processes that would lead to maintaining such low genetic diversity. Is the species abundant in the invaded range or is it maintained at low levels? Are these long-term viable populations? lines 310-311: This suggests that the population is actually not increasing in size line 352: Which cannot really be discarded by the data used line 362: Given the caveats of the data here presented, I would be weary to make this claim lines 377-379: Which again suggests that these populations are not thriving in their invaded range line 392: remove the lines 405-413: Please expand this section, keeping in mind that the populations appear to have very limited ability to expand Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Invasion genetics of the mummichog (Fundulus heteroclitus): recent anthropogenic introduction in Iberia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6155v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Oct 1, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript is very well-written. I only found a few minor language-related edits to make, which are indicated below. The level of background information provided was sufficient, and the overall structure of the paper was in accordance with the standards of PeerJ. Minor edits: -The title should read “Invasion genetics”, as opposed to “Invasive genetics”. -Lines 40-44: this is a run-on sentence. It should be revised to read: “We suggest the most probable introduction vector is associated with the aquarium trade. We further discuss the hypothesis of a second human-mediated introduction responsible for the establishment of individuals in the Ebro Delta.” -lines 44-46 (“Although the species…”) this part can be removed from the abstract. Otherwise, make it clear that it refers to the ecological niche modeling performed (and is not speculation). -lines 51-52: what does “western European margins” refer to? I assume you mean “East Atlantic coastal areas”. Please revise accordingly. -line 62: remove “non-native”. -lines 109-110: according to information detailed below (lines 126-127), and other previous papers, macrolepidotus is the Northern subspecies, and heteroclitus is the Southern subspecies.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The authors emphasize well the originality of their results, and provide sufficient detail on how their work differs from previous publications (lines 128-132). Compared to previous work in this system, they have considerably expanded the number of populations and samples, as well as the length of the mtDNA fragment that was sequenced. The research questions are well defined. Lastly, the methods are described with sufficient detail to allow replication.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The data is robust, and the analyses are statistically sound. The conclusions are also well stated. I appreciated that the authors included a paragraph on caveats (lines 264-274), acknowledging the limitations of using only mtDNA information.
Comments for the author
no additional comments to make. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Invasion genetics of the mummichog (Fundulus heteroclitus): recent anthropogenic introduction in Iberia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6155v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 31, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
