Review History for Primulina anisocymosa (Gesneriaceae), a new species with a unique inflorescence structure from Guangdong, China [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Primulina anisocymosa (Gesneriaceae), a new species with a unique inflorescence structure from Guangdong, China To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 1st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 13th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on November 12th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on November 24th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 25th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Ladislav Mucina
·
Nov 25, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You paper is now in shape to be accepted. Congratulations! # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Sheila McCormick, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 24, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Ladislav Mucina
·
Nov 16, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please, see the attached file for the last small edits to be performed.
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 12, 2018
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ladislav Mucina
·
Sep 13, 2018
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This is a good paper, just in need a bit of tweaking (minor revision).
label_author_1
Russell Barrett ·
Aug 21, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No critical comments. The manuscript is well-written. Language usage is clear, with only a few points requiring clarification which are detailed below. Literature cited is appropriate to the topic and the introduction provides suitable context. The article is suitably structured and novel data are made available in appendices. Results and discussion are suitably correlated.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No critical comments. The manuscript is well conceived with respect to methodology, analyses and conclusions. The paper sets a high standard for the recognition of a new species.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No critical comments. The conclusions of the paper are sound and the recognition of a new species is well-supported.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The following minor points are noted for consideration or correction: Line 27: ‘generic’ is not needed here as it is followed by ‘in the genus’ Line 59 and elsewhere: Check the journal style as to whether initials in citation are appropriate, or if repeated dates with the same surnamed should be lettered to distinguish different authors. Lines 72–80: This information is generally assumed to be true, so would usually be left out, but it may be in keeping with journal standards to include these statements? Line 84: Change ‘these’ to ‘this’ Line 103: Change: ‘the newly acquired sequences of’ to: ‘sequences were newly acquired for’ Line 10: Change: ‘reduce’ to ‘reduced’ Line 113: ‘trn’ should be in italics. Lines 167 and 168: Change ‘triangle’ to ‘triangular’ Lines 172–173: It would be good to clarify the position of the vestigial flowers on the inflorescence further. Lines 228–229 present this more clearly. Line 175: You vary whether or not a space is used to separate bracketed measurements through the description – please check the recommended journal style. Line 179: I suggest changing ‘sect’ to ‘partite’ or ‘merous’ Lines 201–202: change ‘caves entrance’ to ‘cave entrances’ Line 202: Add: ‘the’ before ‘two localities’ Line 215: Add: ‘for’ before ‘P. anisocymosa’ Line 217: Delete ‘the’ before ‘inflorescence’ Line 231: Change: ‘that of other’ to all’ Line 334: ‘Petrocodon’ should be in italics. Line 338: The closing bracket is missing. Figure 1 caption Line 1: Change ‘shoeing’ to ‘showing’; delete second ‘i' in ‘populatiions’ Figure 2 caption Line 1: Change ‘Hand-‘ to ‘Line ‘ Note that the angle of presentation of the inflorescence makes it difficult to determine the extent of the ‘zig-zag’ arrangement that is diagnostic for the species, so this may be best updated. Figure 3 caption Line 2: ‘sp. nov.’ is not required here – otherwise also add to Fig. 2 caption. Line 6: Change ‘Photoed’ to ‘Photos’ or ‘Photographs’ Figure 4 caption Line 2: Change ‘Habitat in flowering’ to ‘Habit when in flower’. As A2 in photographed in a cultivated environment, it is not suitable to describe this as ‘habitat’. Table 1 Text flow would be clearer if all aligned to the top of the cells. Cite this review as
Barrett R ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Primulina anisocymosa (Gesneriaceae), a new species with a unique inflorescence structure from Guangdong, China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6157v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a well written and very comprehensive piece of research. It is well referenced and the authors are aware of the relevant literature in the field. The legends for the figures are not as well written. The first part of the legend for Figure 1, for example, is not necessary as the results are discussed in the main text and more information about what type of tree it is would be useful eg maximum clade credibility tree.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This is a comprehensive study allowing the authors to confidently describe this as a new species and place it in the correct genus.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Although placement of this new species in Primulina is well argued, a comment is made in the introductory section about the highly variable nature of the inflorescence, even within an individual and, yet, it is an inflorescence character that is selected to differentiate this species from all others in the genus. Although I feel confident that the authors are correct, and the character is striking, I think it would be worth adding a statement about the apparent lack of variability in this character in the specimens seen of this new species.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Primulina anisocymosa (Gesneriaceae), a new species with a unique inflorescence structure from Guangdong, China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6157v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 1, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
