Review History for Modulation of corticomotor excitability in response to distal focal cooling [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Modulation of corticomotor excitability in response to distal focal cooling To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 3rd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 5th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on November 16th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 27th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tjeerd Boonstra
·
Nov 27, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have adequately addressed the reviewer comments # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Stephen Macknik, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 17, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The author has made an appropriate response.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The author has made a satisfactory revision for the comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The author has made an appropriate response.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The author has made an appropriate and satisfactory response. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Modulation of corticomotor excitability in response to distal focal cooling (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6163v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 16, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tjeerd Boonstra
·
Nov 5, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers commented positively on the manuscript and made several comments that need to be addressed before the manuscript can be accepted for publication.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 19, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Line 45-60: The authors described “there is still very limited information regarding the neural basis underlying such facilitatory effects.” The introduction attempted to give a background on this study but overall, the descriptions on neuropathway from sensory stimulation receptor to motor cortex are lacking. In addition, a definition of what is meant by thermal stimulation would be good and the range of temperatures of thermal stimulation should be described.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Method Line 97-99: “As described previously, all participants were considered healthy and were screened to ensure that their sensations were normal and that they had no contra-indications to TMS.” I think it would be better list the inclusive and exclusive criteria items. Line 129-135: How many minutes to spend in completing TMS testing during thermal stimulation protocol? Please clarify the short intervals between 1-min and 5- and 10-min post-cooling during the cooling application whether enough time to measure TMS parameters. In addition, the authors did not state any past experience regarding safety of the procedures. Has the safety issue been studied? It would be better to clarify the reason using a pre-cooled gel pack at~10 °C.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Results Line193-195: It would be better to add the citation reference for the statement “In fact, when individual responses were classified in terms of either inhibition (MEP<10% BL), facilitation (MEP>10% BL) or no modulation (MEP ±10% BL), two distinct patterns emerged” Discussion Regarding the resting motor threshold (rMTs), MEP amplitude and latency, the authors should state the clinical implication for these parameters. The description in discussion section is too long. Can you make it more succinct? However, it would be helpful to address the limitation section in the revised manuscript. Conclusion Line 339-341: “Such observations, notably with regards to spatial summation effects and repeatability between sessions, seem critical for future therapeutic applications of cooling stimuli for rehabilitative purposes in neurological populations.” Only healthy adults (n=22) were recruited in this study and thus the results of the present study cannot support the above-mentioned statement. I suggest the authors delete the statement.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This cross-sectional study is an interesting and practical research project. The research entitled “Modulation of corticomotor excitability in response to distal focal cooling”. The aim of this study was to examine whether an increase in stimulation area from single-digit (SD) to multi-digit (MD), four fingers could elicit more consistent modulation. Skin temperature and motor evoked potentials (MEPs) elicited with transcranial magnetic stimulation were measured at baseline (BL, neutral gel pack at 22 <U+25E6>C), at 1-min during the cooling application (pre-cooled 10<U+25E6>C gel pack) and 5- and 10-min post-cooling (PC5 and PC10). The results highlight that responses to cooling stimulation in terms of either depression or facilitation of corticomotor excitability tend to be fairly consistent in a given individual with repeated applications. However, the generalizability of the results with regards to spatial summation effects and repeatability between sessions for rehabilitative applications in neurological populations were limited. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2018 ) Peer Review #1 of "Modulation of corticomotor excitability in response to distal focal cooling (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6163v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Bernadette Murphy ·
Nov 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The study addressed the impact in thermal stimulation has been proposed to facilitate motor recovery in neurological populations, such as stroke. The authors extended their own previous work with single digit cooling, and extended it to multiple digit cooling based on their goal of determining whether an increase in stimulation area could elicit more consistent modulation of motor evoked potentials elicited by Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) directed to the motor area of the first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle. The study is clearly written and the English is of a high standard. The literature review is well referenced and contextualizes the background to the study well. The figures are clear and well labelled and the raw data is supplied.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The authors extended their own previous work with single digit cooling, and extended it to multiple digit cooling to address their stated research question of determining whether an increase in stimulation area could elicit more consistent modulation of motor evoked potentials elicited by Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) directed to the motor area of the first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle. The research fills an important gap about the possible mechanisms by which cool influences cortical excitability. The methods are described in detail and important additional measures such as skin temperature to confirm that cooling indeed took places were included. The work was performed to a high technical and ethical standard. The overall group results were not significant but the authors observed that half of participants showed post cooling MEP facilitation while the other half showed post cooling MEP depression. Further they showed that the tendency to either inhibit or depress MEPs in response to cooling was consistent with participants who participated in their previous single digit cooling experiment and the current multi-digit cooling. This is the biggest strength of the work. There is a growing trend to determine if MEP responses to interventions show a differential response to a given intervention, this work clearly does. Their conclusions were fair, related to the original research question and did not overstep the mark. Their correlative analysis of MEP modulation between sessions for SD and MD cooling found reasonable within-subject repeatability over time on repeated applications of cooling. This suggests that the tendency for MEPs to either inhibit or facilitate in response to cooling is consistent within a given individual, providing validity to their decision to report those who facilitated and those who inhibited in response to cold as two separate groups. Their conclusion that this work on the impact of spatial summation effects and individual repeatability between sessions, is important work needed to validate “future therapeutic applications of cooling stimuli for rehabilitative purposes in neurological populations.” Suggestion: if possible, include 2 or 3 references from previous TMS work where a bimodal response in terms of MEP inhibition or facilitation has been observed. This is not essential but it would strengthen their decision to compare the “inhibitors” and “facilitators” as two separate groups.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The study has in important impact because thermal stimulation has been proposed to facilitate motor recovery in neurological populations, such as stroke, and yet little is understood regarding the physiological mechanisms by which thermal stimulation impacts neural function. In this study, neural function was assessed by measuring changes in motor evoked potential (MEP) amplitude and latency at varying time points during and after multi-digit cooling. The data is robust (averaging 20 MEPs at each time point), and the statistics are appropriate for the research design.
Cite this review as
Murphy B ( 2018 ) Peer Review #2 of "Modulation of corticomotor excitability in response to distal focal cooling (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6163v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 3, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
