Review History for Photosynthesis, yield and raw material quality of sugarcane injured by multiple pests [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Photosynthesis, yield and raw material quality of sugarcane injured by multiple pests To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 20th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 1st, 2014. The first revision was submitted on November 6th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 27th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Kirankumar Mysore
·
Nov 27, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have addressed all the concerns raised by the reviewers except the fact that the experiment was done only during one season. The authors seem to have justified why it was only done in one season. Even though it is not entirely convincing, I am willing to accept the article as it is, due to the time that would be needed to repeat the experiment. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Sheila McCormick, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 6, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
John Passioura
·
May 1, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The first reviewer has made important points about the design and replication of the experiments, especially that another replication is needed to provide confidence that the results are robust.
label_author_1
Robert Peterson ·
Mar 31, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript provides information on the physiological, yield, and quality of sugarcane in response to injury by two insect species exhibiting different injury types. The information fits into the broader field of knowledge. Relevant literature is appropriately referenced. The paper is fairly well written but there are needed changes to syntax, style, and grammar.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental and treatment design needs to be explained in more detail. What year was the experiment conducted? Was the experiment replicated just once? If so, why? Field experiments typically are replicated twice to control for the role of environment in influencing any treatment differences. A RCBD design was used, but what was the blocking factor? The authors mention they used ANOVA and an LSD Test. Why? What advantages do those procedures have over others? The authors expect to see differences among treatments so why are they using a relatively liberal means separation test? This might bias their findings. Why not use a more conservative test instead (e.g., Tukey’s, SNK)? What statistical program was used? R, SAS, other? The authors seem to have measured photosynthesis from the same experimental units throughout the seasons yet there is no mention of a repeated measures design or analysis. Why not? Also, why isn’t there a statistical evaluation for interaction between sugarcane borer and spittlebug? This seems like a highly relevant and desirable question. The authors recorded CO2 exchange rates (photosynthetic rates) but make no mention of other gas exchange variables that can be measured by the LI-6400, like stomatal conductance, intercellular CO2, and transpiration rates. These values could help tease apart potential mechanisms of impairment for spittlebug.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See above.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Title: Herbivores do not attack plants. Do cows attack grass? No, so why is it acceptable to say that sugarcane borer attacks sugarcane? Herbivores injure or feed on plants. Change title to: “Photosynthesis, yield, and raw material quality of sugarcane injured by Diatraea saccharalis and Mahanarva fimbriolata. Change “attack” to “injury/injure, etc” throughout the article. Line 28. Replace “most” with “more”. Include species names with authorities for sugarcane and maize at first mention. L 29. Insert “in those countries” after “areas”. L 33. Change “harvest” to “harvesting”. L 35. Delete “the”. L 37. Insert “native” before “spittlebug”. L 38. Delete “native”. L 42. Delete “the”. L 44. Delete “the”. L 45. Replace “present superior” with “result in high yields”. L 47. Need to define “raw material quality”. L 52. Replace “(biotic stressors) was not addressed yet” with “have not been characterized”. L 53. Replace “on” with “of”. L 54. Delete the phrase after “thresholds”. L 60. Delete “pests”. L 61. Replace “It was adopted the…” with “A randomized complete block design (RCBD) with four replications was used.” L 66. Replace “comprised” with “was”. L 66. What was the density of the sugarcane plants within the 2-m long rows? L 67. What are the dimensions of the cage and what is the size of the screening? How long were the cages on the plants? L 70. Replace “presented” with “present”. L 77. What is meant by “leaf +1”? L 78. Need much more information on the LI-COR 6400. Location of manufacturer (Lincoln, Nebraska, USA). Did the authors use the integrated light source or an external source (i.e., sunlight)? What was the light intensity? Was a constant CO2 reference used? If so what was the concentration? What was the flow rate? L 83. Replace “presented” with “had”. L 84. Replace “photosntesis” with “photosynthesis”. L 88. Replace “harvesting” with “harvest”. L 93. Replace “damaged” with “injured”. L 105. Replace “15.80%” with “15.8%”. L 106-107. Very awkward phrasing. Rewrite. L 109. Replace “close” with “similar”. L 109. Insert “the” after “in”. L 111. Replace “presented borer infestation” with “were infested”. L 112. Replace “had the photosynthetic rate analyzed” with “were analyzed for photosynthesis.” L 113. Replace “not enough” with “of insufficient number”. L 115. Insert “average” before “photosynthetic” and delete “average” after “rate”. Replace “on” with “in”. L 118. Replace “performance” with “result”. L 120. Insert “sugarcane” before “borer” and replace “presented” with “had”. L 121. Replace “interfere” with “affect”. L 126. Delete “the” and replace “feeding” with “injury”. L 130. Replace “sap” with “phloem”. Figure 1. Need “CO2” in the y-axis. L 140. Delete both instances of “the”. L 141. Replace “higher” with “greater”. L 143. Insert “negatively” in the sentence before “influenced”. L 148. Replace “into” with “in”. Figure 2. The “-2” before “m” needs to be superscripted. L 155. Delete the second “the”. L 156. Replace “being that” with “and” L 158. Replace “were” with “was”. L 160. Replace “damages” with “injures”. L 162. Replace “On the other hand” with “However”. L 162. Insert “the” before “stalk”. L 163. Delete “occurred” and replace “enough” with “sufficient”. L 164-165. Delete “Biometric parameters impacts, such as” and begin sentence with “Diameter…” L 165. Delete comma after “reductions” and replace “enough” with “sufficient”. L 165-166. Awkward sentence. Rewrite. L 170. Replace “registered” with “observed”. L 172 and elsewhere. The “II” abbreviation is not necessary in this manuscript. Just spell out the term each time. L 185. Replace “Usually” with “Typically” and “to” with “with”. L 186. Delete “into”. L 197. Replace “around” with “on”. L 199. Delete “holistic”. Cite this review as
Peterson RK ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Photosynthesis, yield and raw material quality of sugarcane injured by multiple pests (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6166v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Fikru Haile ·
May 1, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Authors have done a very good job of reporting their research results.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Trials were very well designed. Authors have really prepared a thorough treatment list to ensure that effects of caging were factored in so that treatment effects were better measured.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Results of thier finding adds to our growing knowledge to better understand how such criptic insects such as the sugarcane borer and spittlebugs affect various plant physiological processes, sugar content, and yield of sugarcane. To my knowledge, this is the first work to addres physiological responses of sugarcane to insect feeding and how these ultimatley affects yield, Such knowledge is crucial to understnd the relationship between insect feeding, pest pressure, and threshold levels, which are key to developing managment decisions.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
comments are made directly on the manuscript. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Haile F ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Photosynthesis, yield and raw material quality of sugarcane injured by multiple pests (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6166v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 20, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
