Review History for Long-term effects of straw and straw-derived biochar on soil aggregation and fungal community in a rice–wheat rotation system [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Long-term effects of straw and straw-derived biochar on soil aggregation and fungal community in a rice–wheat rotation system To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 14th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 6th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on November 26th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 28th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Monika Mortimer
·
Nov 28, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for carefully revising your manuscript and addressing the reviewer comments. I look forward to publication of your paper and wish you all the best in your future research! # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Valeria Souza, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 26, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Monika Mortimer
·
Nov 6, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As you can see below, both reviewers have made suggestions how your manuscript could be further improved. Please consider changing your manuscript according to the reviewers' suggestions, so it can be further considered for publication.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 1, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript is generally well-written using clear and professional English. The manuscript can be further improved regarding the following aspects: 1) define abbreviations when the term is firstly used, such as C (line 67) and TN (line 138). These terms might be commonly used in this area but it would be better to get consistent as the authors did a good job defining other abbreviations throughout the manuscript; 2) be explicit when describing methods or results. For example, in the abstract, the author said "soil samples of different aggregate fractions...". It should be explained what are different fractions. Is it based on sizes? Another example is "...CO2-emission-related fungi in specific aggregates (p<0.05)." What are the specific aggregates. 3) a few confusing statements containing misconceptions. In Line 64-66, it reads like bacteria are a branch of fungi, which is not the case.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The reviewer has a major concern about the experimental design because: 1) the author did not clearly describe how many types of biochars were applied in this study and how frequently applied. The reviewer guesses there should be two biochars according to the supplemental table, and the biochars were yearly buried instead of burying them only during the first or first two years as the crop biomass wastes were yearly generated so they will be yearly sent back to land as amendments. If so, the study would be interesting but becoming complicated as there are two types of biochars making influences at the same time without knowing which one had more impacts than the other. Also, as time goes on, the biochar/straw application rate, on an area basis, would increase since the carbon stayed on the land and accumulated year after year. These factors should be considered and discussed in this manuscript. 2) The manuscript lacks some important soil property descriptions as baseline or background data. For example, the soil texture plays an important role in soil aggregation. If the soil is clayey, many studies showed that soil amendment could not significantly increase aggregation. Is the soil used in this study sandy or silty? It would be interesting to know. Also, it would be better to have some data about the soil microbial data in year one or before the crop wastes were applied. Basically, the authors were comparing CS and CB with CF and CK during the sixth year and concluding what kind of impacts biochar or straw had on the microbial parameters. Without knowing the initial baseline data, the conclusions can be misleading.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results and discussion are generally well-written and closely correlated but in some statements, it would be better to point out which figure or table supports such sentences. For example, line 266-268, "C:N ratio was among the strongest correlates of fungal community..." Which figure could prove this?
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Long-term effects of straw and straw-derived biochar on soil aggregation and fungal community in a rice–wheat rotation system (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6171v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Daoyuan Wang ·
Nov 5, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The research topic is very important. Understanding the long-term impacts of biochar at field scale is critical for determining whether biochar can be used as an soil management tool in the future. At the same time, there is very few research looked into the impact of management practice on microbial community in soil water-stable aggregate fractions. The manuscript is written in fine English. The related and latest references were sufficiently and properly cited in this manuscript. The results of this study is presented clearly and well discussed.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question is clear and well defined. It's helpful to fill the current knowledge gap in biochar field application. Methods are well described and sufficient details of methods were provided.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The experiment was properly conducted including control and replicates. Data provided is robust and can support discussion and conclusion in this manuscript.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Here a couple of specific comments: Specific comments: Line 64-66. Seems like some part of this sentence is missing or half modified. Please check. Line 66. Provide nutrients for? Line 87. The impact of biochar on soil properties and microbial activities were not always positive. Please modify this paragraph and include some literature with negative impacts, too. Line 103. Please also provide some hypotheses here. Line 116. Please state what pure nitrogen meant here. Was it total N or plant available N? Line 138. Was soil inorganic C tested here? Figure 1. This figure looks redundancy to me since the mean weight diameter of soil aggregates were reported already. Cite this review as
Wang D ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Long-term effects of straw and straw-derived biochar on soil aggregation and fungal community in a rice–wheat rotation system (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6171v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 14, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
