Review History for Network based meta-analysis prediction of microenvironmental relays involved in stemness of human embryonic stem cells [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Network based meta-analysis prediction of microenvironmental relays involved in stemness of human embryonic stem cells To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 10th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 23rd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on September 16th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 22nd, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Xiang-Jiao Yang
·
Sep 22, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for making the suggested revisions.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 16, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Xiang-Jiao Yang
·
Jul 23, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Two reviewers agreed to review your paper and one reviewer (reviewer 1) suggested major revision. The other reviewer (reviewer 2) has not submitted his/her review even after several reminders. To avoid furher delay, I am making a decision now. I have also gone through the paper and found that it is interesting, but I do think that additional analyses would be necessary, such as those three points suggested to reviewer 1 (see the attached comments). In addition, it would be nice to have some validation of the candidates. Related to GO analysis, can you use the GSEA program for additional evaluation?
label_author_1
edwin wang ·
Jul 13, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
see blow
Experimental design
label_ed_1
see blow
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
see below
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
It is interesting to analyze gene expression data of stem cells to mine the potential cell-cell interaction genes. I general the analyzing methods are reasonable, however, I have several questions: 1. the cultural conditions of the cells (used for this study) have not been documented. It is possible that the cultural conditions will influence the expression of the genes which are involved in cell-microenvironment interactions. In addition, could the authors find some 3-D culture gene expression data for stem cells to conduct analysis. In this situation, the niche of the stem cells are known. 2. could authors conduct more network motif analysis so that key network motifs could be identified (see PMID: 21674097, PMID: 18091723). 3. String database in a predicted database. I suggest that authors could combine it with the largest manually curated human signalling database ( see http://www.bri.nrc.ca/wang/ ) and re-run the analysis. Cite this review as
wang e ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Network based meta-analysis prediction of microenvironmental relays involved in stemness of human embryonic stem cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.618v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 10, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
