Review History for The structure of people’s hair [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The structure of people’s hair To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 7th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 4th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on September 14th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 22nd, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mikko Karttunen
·
Sep 22, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
We would be pleased if you could provide the raw data (as offered in previous correspondence) even if it is in some non-standard format.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 14, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mikko Karttunen
·
Sep 4, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors, We have received the reviewers' comments and the decision is minor revision.
label_author_1
laurent kreplak ·
Aug 16, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I have a few comments regarding the data collected and the interpretations provided: - It is well known that the axial packing of coiled coils within keratin filaments in hair gives rise to a large number of fine arcs along the meridian (z axis for the authors). The most prominent one is at 6.7 nm and is not observed by the authors. However there are other ones between 6.7 and 1.2 nm. Instead of using an azimuthal integration with a 25 degree opening, the authors should integrate along the meridian with a thin rectangular box, a few pixel wide. I am pretty sure they will see a few peaks that should be reported for completeness. - For both Figure 5 and 6, the authors fit the profiles with a few gaussian peaks plus a background signal that looks like a power law. The authors need to provide a detailed description of the fitting protocol and how initial values were chosen. Where all fitting parameters allowed to move freely over all possible values or restricted to a given window (this is a common practice for peak fitting)? The issue of the power law background is important for fitting the SAXS data. The three peaks in the SAXS profile are quite broad and in truth not gaussian in nature as they derive from the peaks of a Bessel function. Their positions are easily shifted by changing the background function.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall this is a well conducted study of the molecular structure of human hair over a small group of individuals. I find very interesting that most of the observed differences are in signals associated to lipids. In that regard the authors should mention possible lipid contribution in the medulla of human hair. Previous infrared spectroscopy maps of human hair indicated the predominance of the characteristic CH2 vibration in the medulla (Kreplak et al., Int J Cosmetic Sci, 2001, 23(6):369-74). Cite this review as
kreplak l ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "The structure of people’s hair (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.619v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 28, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The article reports on an x-ray fiber diffraction study of human hair. The authors use a laboratory x-ray source to record wide-angle diffraction patterns from fiber bundles. The study is based on a very small set of samples from 12 different individuals, as already pointed out in the abstract. The authors list the measured hair diameters, color, and appearance in a table and qualitatively compare the recorded diffraction patterns. The features observed in the x-ray patterns are associated with kreatin proteins, fatty acids, and membrane components within the hierarchical hair structure. As a main conclusion, the authors find that differences between the individuals were mainly observed in the composition of the plasma membrane, while all other features appear to be essentially equal among individuals. The paper is of course not a systematic and statistically meaningful investigation due to the small number of individuals, and the paper does not claim to be. Also, more advanced methods such as x-ray microbeam diffraction on individual hairs are available. X-ray nanofocus techniques would even allow to study subdomains within an individual hair fiber. Nevertheless, the paper provides a useful and easy to read overview and possibly some inspiration for a more general audience. It is also novel in emphasizing the important role of lipids in the hair structure. I would recommend that the authors explore in more detail what can be done with modern nanobeam diffraction methods and include this in the introduction and outlook, including relevant literature. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "The structure of people’s hair (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.619v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 7, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
