Review History for Combining legacy data with new drone and DGPS mapping to identify the provenance of Plio-Pleistocene fossils from Bolt’s Farm, Cradle of Humankind (South Africa) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Combining legacy data with new drone and DGPS mapping to identify the provenance of Plio-Pleistocene fossils from Bolt’s Farm, Cradle of Humankind (South Africa) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 25th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 21st, 2018. The first revision was submitted on December 3rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 3rd, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
William Jungers
·
Dec 3, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your attention to reviewer suggestions, the minor "fixes" and quick turn-around. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Andrew Farke, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 3, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
William Jungers
·
Nov 21, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have received 2 very positive reviews of your paper on Bolt's Farm, both of which see the need for only minor revisions. Both offer helpful annotations that I urge you to read and incorporate. Reviewer 1 (Dr. Anemone) requests additional citations to contextualize your work and to give credit to others using similar methods in paleoanthropology and vertebrate paleontology. I support this recommendation. I anticipate that no further review will be necessary when we receive your revised manuscript.
label_author_1
Robert Anemone ·
Nov 12, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article follows a recent trend in which paleoanthropologists and vertebrate paleontologists are increasingly using sophisticated tools, methods, and datasets from the Geographic Information Sciences (GISciences) in their explorations for and analyses of fossil-bearing deposits around the world. It would be appropriate for the authors to include citations to some of this recent work in paleoanthropology and vertebrate paleontology (published in journals like JHE, JVP, AJPA, Evol Anthro and others), and to thereby place their work within this historical context and evolving tradition within our disciplines. (Archaeologists have been using sophisticated geospatial tools for much longer than paleoanthropologists). The writing is clear and unambiguous, although many small suggestions and edits have been included on the uploaded pdf, and these will improve the tone, clarity, and the sense of the manuscript. The Figures and Tables are relevant and high quality and appropriately labeled for the most part. Figure 1 depicts what looks like a DEM of South Africa, yet the color ramp is not defined. Figure 1 also includes a topographic map yet doesn’t label the contour interval. Please include the map projection or UTM zone for Figure 2 below the scale bar.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The design of the research is clear, its aims are well within the scope of PeerJ, and its methods are rigorous, utilizing state of the art geospatial techniques to clarify long-standing confusion as to the location of fossil sites at Bolt’s Farm. The Methods are described in sufficient detail and the Supplementary Data are relevant and provide added value to this work (esp. the detailed faunal lists and notes concerning biochronology).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are valid and help to clarify long-standing confusion as to the identity and location of fossil-0bearing sites at Bolt’s Farm, resulting from a long and episodic history of work there by different teams separated by long temporal gaps. The authors have done the field a service by restudying the collections from Bolt’s Farm at different institutions on different continents. The biochronological conclusions are necessarily limited in their scope and finality, but this is mostly a result of limitations in the data themselves rather than a problem with the current research design or execution.
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Anemone RL ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Combining legacy data with new drone and DGPS mapping to identify the provenance of Plio-Pleistocene fossils from Bolt’s Farm, Cradle of Humankind (South Africa) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6202v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 20, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Some minor edits are suggested on the pdf itself in terms of grammar and wording. It is a well written paper with relevant information and high quality figures that will certainly provide guidance for future scientists that are interested in field work at this site or the fauna that has been recovered from there.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
All of the previous maps of the site, as well as any potential sources of information (like field journals) were accessed for this study, giving the sense that this truly is an exhaustive description of the site. Methods for how various maps were combined with current aerial photography were clear.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The recommendation of using the original names of the pits when possible is useful and as a great example of how research at several Cradle sites could move forward with more information that is better translated across research groups. Errors in naming are likely seen at many sites that have had different research projects over the years, and this paper serves as a good example of potential “best practices” in moving forward with rectifying some of the errors. It’s possible other researchers who have worked at the site or will in the future may not agree with the recommendation, but at minimum this paper illustrates which pits are named or renamed by various projects. The data used for the biochronology estimates seem robust and will be interesting in light of new absolute dates coming out of the Cradle.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper, “Combining legacy data with new drone and DGPS mapping to identify the provenance of Plio-Pleistocene fossils from Bolt's Farm, Cradle of Humankind (South Africa),” revises the map and names of Bolt’s Farm assemblages, as well as provides maximum and minimum dates via biochronology for those assemblages when possible. The background provided about the excavation history of Bolt’s Farm is valuable, and the tables of site names and related information through time is an extremely important contribution to the field. Though it is mentioned in the paper that this study did not have a goal of comprehensive faunal lists for each site within Bolt’s Farm, such a contribution would certainly be valuable as a follow-up in the future. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Combining legacy data with new drone and DGPS mapping to identify the provenance of Plio-Pleistocene fossils from Bolt’s Farm, Cradle of Humankind (South Africa) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6202v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 25, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
