Review History for Fishing for vaccines against Vibrio cholerae using in silico pan-proteomic reverse vaccinology approach [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Fishing for vaccines against Vibrio cholerae using in silico pan-proteomic reverse vaccinology approach To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 23rd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 17th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on November 17th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 5th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Dec 5, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Rashid and colleagues: Thanks for re-submitting your manuscript to PeerJ, and for addressing the concerns raised by the reviewers. I now believe that your manuscript is suitable for publication. Congratulations! I look forward to seeing this work in print, and I anticipate it being an important resource for microbiologists working on cholera vaccines. Thanks again for choosing PeerJ to publish such important work. -joe # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Elena Papaleo, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Abbasali Keshtkar ·
Dec 4, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
It is acceptable. The authors appropriately revised the manuscript based on the reviewers' comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
It is acceptable.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are valid and robust.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript is appropriately prepared and revised based on the reviewer's comments. Cite this review as
Keshtkar A ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Fishing for vaccines against Vibrio cholerae using in silico pan-proteomic reverse vaccinology approach (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6223v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 17, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Aug 17, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Dr. Rashid and colleagues: Thanks for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. I have now received two independent reviews of your work, and as you will see, the reviewers raised some substantial concerns about the research. Despite this, one reviewer is optimistic about your work and the potential impact it will have on the Vibrio cholera vaccine development. The other reviewer is far less optimistic; thus, your revision will need to convince this reviewer of the significance of your work, perhaps by 1) presenting the paper as a purely in silico approach (especially in the title and abstract) 2) improving the writing and presentation of figures, 3) downplaying the importance of antibiotic resistance, 4) avoiding overstatements about certain virulence mechanisms (try providing solid references for all stated virulence factors), 5) better analyzing your findings in the context of previous reports on such approaches. Importantly, some of these criticisms were also raised by reviewer 1. Accordingly, I am encouraging you to revise your manuscript taking into account all of the concerns raised by both reviewers. Good luck with your revision, and thanks again for submitting your work to PeerJ. -joe
label_author_2
Abbasali Keshtkar ·
Aug 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Please convert the abstract to the structured version. The authors can refer to the Instructions for Authors (in PeerJ) or the similar published papers. INTRODUCTION: The presented evidence (lines 54-61) need to accompany with the relevant information regarding the efficacy/effectiveness of the mentioned interventions (anti-cholera oral formulation and genetically engineered V. Cholera O1 live attenuated Vaccine). In the 3rd paragraph (lines: 63-70), the authors only indicated to the RV strengths. Authors should also consider the weaknesses of this approach. In addition, it is better to compare the effectiveness of this method with other similar methods or alternatives (traditional vaccine development methods or the others method). Please consider the related literature on V cholera vaccines (different methods or technologies in according to efficacy, safety, …).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
METHODS: Although the method of this study has been published in one of the authors' previous articles (ref.no. 34), it is better to revise the method section of this article in greater detail in the investigation process.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
RESULTS: I think that it is appropriate. DISCUSSION: Unfortunately, the authors have not mentioned the limitations of this study and the directions for future research. It is better to consider the clinical implications based on the investigation findings.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Please convert the abstract to the structured version. The authors can refer to the Instructions for Authors (in PeerJ) or the similar published papers. Cite this review as
Keshtkar A ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Fishing for vaccines against Vibrio cholerae using in silico pan-proteomic reverse vaccinology approach (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6223v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
In this paper, Rahid, Rehman and Andleeb use a multi-step computational approach to predict peptides that they propose would be useful as antigens for cholera vaccines. There may be some valuable information here, but the authors do not sufficiently contextualize their findings in light of other studies (e.g. see pt 7 below). Major points 1.Make clear in abstract (and title) that this is bioinformatics paper; i.e. that the screen was purely in silico. Usually, in reverse vaccinology approach, candidate polypeptides are tested for immunogenicity. 2.There is an over-emphasis on the importance of antibiotic resistance; in general antibiotic therapy is an adjunct to re-hydration and not a key issue in cholera. 3.It is not clear how/why the STRING analysis aides in predicting good antigens. 4.The claim that NlpD, OmpU, AcfA and OmpW are “critically important virulence mechanisms in V. cholerae” (line 203-205) is not well-grounded. To the best of my knowledge ompU mutants are not attenuated and acfA mutants exhibit only a modest colonization defect. 5.Additional details are necessary in the figure legends. For example, the legend for figure 2 should include a description of the yellow, blue, and red bars and the polar plot in the middle of each chromosome outline; the legend for figure 5 should list which of the protein structures are predictions and which are actual solved crystal structures, inclusion of any PDB accession codes used would also be helpful; in Figure 6 include a description of the different strains that are used in the multiple sequence alignment. 6.The introduction and perhaps discussion requires a more thorough and up to date description of cholera vaccine research. 7.Some references and discussion of prior studies of V. cholerae antigens; in particular the authors should include a comparison of their findings with those included in J Infect Dis. 2017 Jul 1;216(1):125-134. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jix253. 8.The paper is in need of careful editing for typos and grammatical errors. Minor points: Line 36 Non-O1 non)139 serogroups can be choleragenic Line 37 serotype should be serogroup
Experimental design
label_ed_3
see comments above
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
see comments above
Comments for the author
see comments above Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Fishing for vaccines against Vibrio cholerae using in silico pan-proteomic reverse vaccinology approach (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6223v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 23, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
