Review History for Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis reveals potential biomarkers for early healing in cutaneous leishmaniasis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis reveals potential biomarkers for early healing in cutaneous leishmaniasis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 27th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 13th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on November 28th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 6th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Erika Braga
·
Dec 6, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have well addressed all the suggestions and recommendations raised by the Reviewer.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 30, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I believe that, following the revisions, in the current version the article is suitable for publication
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I believe that, following the revisions, in the current version the article is suitable for publication
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I believe that, following the revisions, in the current version the article is suitable for publication
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I believe that, following the revisions, in the current version the article is suitable for publication Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis reveals potential biomarkers for early healing in cutaneous leishmaniasis (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6228v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 28, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Erika Braga
·
Nov 13, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The review process is now complete, and two thorough reviews from highly qualified referees are included at the bottom of this letter. All reviewers including myself agree the manuscript deserves to be published. Although there is considerable merit in your paper, we also identified some concerns that must be considered in your resubmission. Please, provide explanation to the analysis performed and details and justification of samples used.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript (#31402) submitted to PeerJ, entitled “Label, free quantitative proteomic analysis reveals potential biomarkers for early healing in cutaneous Leishmaniasis”, whose aim was to compare the proteomic profiles in patients with Cutaneous Leishmaniasis (CL) before and after 7 days of treatment and identify early biomarkers of curative response. Twelve proteins showed differential expression in the comparative LC-electrospray ionization MS/MS (LC-ESI-MS/MS) by triplicate analysis. Seven of them were up-regulated and five of them were down-regulated. It was confirmed that three of the seven up-regulated proteins also had increased expression of their mRNA. The purpose and approach are quite interesting in the area and the manuscript may attract the attention of several readers. However, several points must be clarified. The authors state that “The aim of this study was to find and validate early biomarkers of therapeutic response in CL using proteomics without labeling in order to provide patients with adequate monitoring and identify early treatment failure, thus providing the possibility of changing the therapeutic scheme in a timely manner.” However, there are no validation tests of the biomarkers, only an mRNA quantification of 3 candidate proteins, whose increased expression was confirmed. Also, how could they identify early treatment failure if there are no patient samples with this characteristic?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Another very important point that needs to be better described is in relation to the sample. The number of patients and samples do not seem clear to me. It was also not possible to understand whether technical or only biological triplicates were made. In METHODS section, line 99: “ Four patients with a parasitological diagnosis of leishmaniasis with confirmation of species by PCR-RFLP were recruited.” Shortly thereafter, line 189 “Six patients were included in the validation assay.” In RESULTS section, line 240: “three of the four biological replicas”, and still in line 288 “All 5 patients were cured after 6…” The experimental design is not clearly described. It would be useful to include a schematic describing the experimental design, or to describe this more clearly the text. How many patients, how many samples of each patient were prepared and loaded on the gel? And on the LC-MS/MS, or on the mRNA? It can be seen from the title as well as in the M & M that label-free proteomic approach was performed. However, the authors seem to make some mistake in the section results quoting label-based quantification (Line 240-241, line 267). As is the standard in proteomics work, I suggest that identified proteins be categorized according to GO. The GO defines concepts/classes used to describe gene function, and relationships between these concepts. It classifies functions along three aspects: molecular function, cellular component and biological process.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
In RESULTS section, What is the correct HDB (line 258) or HBD (line 283)? About DISCUSSION section, it could be very interesting for the authors to define a touchstone for the proteins that will be considered in this section. As it is written, it was not possible to understand why some proteins are there, for example Keratin, type II cytoskeletal 73 and LAMP2, KRT10 and ATP7A. In addition, it may be that the lines 326-332 are dispensable. Figures 2A as well as 3B are dispensable. Figure 4 - it might be interesting to note if the proteins are up or down regulated. Caption Figure 5 is so confuse. Rewrite.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis reveals potential biomarkers for early healing in cutaneous leishmaniasis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6228v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 6, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript titled “Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis reveals potential biomarkers for early healing in cutaneous leishmaniasis” aims a critical issue regarding the disease combat. The manuscript is well written and minor correction in English are required. The data is showed correctly in the tables and figures. The authors applied cutting edge technology to search for biomarkers and reveal new proteins for future research.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The experimental design was well drawn; the distinct stages of the work were carefully and diligently put together. And overall the experimental design is ok! The material and methods section is well written and have sufficient details to be replicated if necessary.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
In my consideration, there are some important questions not addressed by results and not discussed in the manuscript; The proteome of the leishmania parasite is been found to hold almost 50% of hypothetical/Uncharacterized proteins and it is surprisingly that in a wide proteome analysis, no one of these proteins was found. The authors cited an article (reference 5) in which hypothetical proteins were assayed. Another concern is about statistical validity of the results, the authors performed all the assays with a very low number of patients. These facts should be stated in a paragraph in the discussion section.
Comments for the author
The manuscript entitled "“Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis reveals potential biomarkers for early healing in cutaneous leishmaniasis” represents a nice piece or work and a good contribution to the of new biomarkers. The manuscript is well written and organized. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis reveals potential biomarkers for early healing in cutaneous leishmaniasis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6228v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 27, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
