Review History for The rise of feathered dinosaurs: Kulindadromeus zabaikalicus, the oldest dinosaur with ‘feather-like’ structures [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The rise of feathered dinosaurs: Kulindadromeus zabaikalicus , the oldest dinosaur with ‘feather-like’ structures To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 12th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 12th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on December 8th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 8th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Andrew Farke
·
Dec 8, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your close attention to the comments from the reviewers, and for your thorough revision. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Laura Wilson, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 8, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Andrew Farke
·
Nov 12, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This manuscript provides important new age constraint data on an important fossil locality--this is a great addition to the scientific record! Based on feedback from the reviewers, required revisions are fairly minimal. Most critically, note requests from Reviewer 1 to provide a more detailed methodological explanation for the radiometric dating (e.g., grain selection, etc.). Also give consideration to any material in the supplemental text that could be moved into the manuscript. Finally, are the pollen samples archived anywhere, to permit future workers to verify observations and identifications here?
label_author_1
Eric Roberts ·
Nov 2, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a good manuscript with only a few issues that I can see. The writing is very clear and mostly free of errors or gramatical issues. The literature review is good and I cannot find any issues on this front. The figures are not as good as one would hope. Figure 1B is very small and hard to see. It only shows what appears to be talus, not any stratigraphy. I would suggest combining figure 1A and Figure 2. I would remove Figure 1b and include it with Figure 3 instead. I would also like some high quality photos of each of the trenche sections. The stratigraphic column in Figure 3 is ok, but insufficient. I say this because there are inconsistencies in the manuscript over what was actually dated, which the methods stating volcaniclastics vs volcanic ash in quite ambiguous ways. I want to see photos of the ash beds and volcaniclastic deposits. This needs to be much more clearly stated. See comments in manuscrip and figure captions. My number one concern is the apparently relaxed nature of the dating process. The authors state that monazite and zircon with dated, apparently together? and used to produce the reported ages. There is no mention of SEM or CL imaging used in the laser spot selection. This part of the paper needs to be cleaned up and clarified. If you are procuding ages from mixed populations of zircon and monazite, I want to know why and what different standards were used. Why are zircon ages and monazite ages not shown separately? This just needs a bit of cleaning up. I would like to understand what kind of screeing was used to select grains for dating, etc... I found the conclusions well reasoned and solid. In sum, good paper. Just needs a bit of tightening up.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Very good aims and scope. The research questions and motivations are clear and valuable. See points above regarding the methods. These are not as sound as they could be. Work is needed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The only thing that I am not comfortable with is the dating approach combining monazite and zircon ages to apparently arrive at the reported concordia ages. This needs to be explained. Otherwise the dating results look fine.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
See comments above and in the attached manuscript. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Roberts E ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "The rise of feathered dinosaurs: Kulindadromeus zabaikalicus, the oldest dinosaur with ‘feather-like’ structures (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6239v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Vivi Vajda ·
Nov 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I have read and assessed the manuscript "The rise of feathered dinosaurs: Kulindadromeus zabaikalicus, the oldest dinosaur with ‘feather-like’ structures." I have read the entire manuscript but will mainly restrict the feed-back on the palynology, which is my area of expertise. This is an extremely well written manuscript, both concerning language and the organization of the paper. The manuscript is easy to follow, all through even for a non-vertebrate specialist. The palynological part is thorough, and the figures nice and necessary. It is difficult to date Jurassic terrestrial deposits by palynology but the authors have carefully built up their case. The only minor issues that I can find is that Quadraeculina is misspelt (line 218) 8th letter should be a c instead of a q. I also miss a palynological photographical plate showing the main taxa – it is not crucial to include as the stratigraphical fig no. 6 is sufficient, but it would be nice to have one in the supplementary part, if possible. Also some more recent relevant references are lacking: Shevchuk, O., Slater, S. M., & Vajda, V. 2018. Palynology of Jurassic (Bathonian) sediments from Donbas, northeast Ukraine. Palaeobiodiversity and Palaeoenvironments, 98(1). https://doi.org/10.1007/s12549-017-0310-3 Slater, S. M., Wellman, C. H., Romano, M. & Vajda, V. 2018. Dinosaur-plant interactions within a Middle Jurassic ecosystem palynology of the Burniston Bay dinosaur footprint locality, Yorkshire, UK. Palaeobiodiversity and Palaeoenvironments, 98(1). https://doi.org/10.1007/s12549-017-0309-9 In summary, I suggest a very minor revision based on the palynological contribution. The rest of the manuscript is well-written and most probably correct but as I can´t judge this with certainty I leave those parts to other referees. I hope to see this manuscript in print as it contributes some interesting results. Sincerely
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Fine
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Interesting with broad relevance.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
See above. Cite this review as
Vajda V ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "The rise of feathered dinosaurs: Kulindadromeus zabaikalicus, the oldest dinosaur with ‘feather-like’ structures (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6239v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 12, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
