Review History for Turtles of the genera Geoemyda and Pangshura (Testudines: Geoemydidae) lack differentiated sex chromosomes: the end of a 40-year error cascade for Pangshura [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Turtles of the genera Geoemyda and Pangshura (Testudines: Geoemydidae) lack differentiated sex chromosomes: the end of a 40-year error cascade for Pangshura To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 29th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 13th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on December 4th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 8th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Scott Edwards
·
Dec 8, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Great job! Have a great holiday! # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Nigel Andrew, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 4, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Scott Edwards
·
Nov 13, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
It looks like the reviews are very positive and only a few minor issues that reviewer #2 raised need to be addressed. Please send back the revisions and a rebuttal letter as soon as practical.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 7, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is clearly written and is to the point. It addresses an important hypothesis in that it corrects a long standing misinterpretation of the sex determining mode in a clade of turtles. The coverage of the literature is adequate to establish the problem addressed and its significance. The paper is succinct and addresses a well defined question.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors reinterpret the karyotype of earlier workers and present an alternative interpretation that does not require proposing ZZ/ZW chromosomes in a hard-shelled turtle, particularly where a sister taxon has XX/XY chromosomes or GSD. The authors then use contemporary techniques of CGH and FISH in an attempt to demonstrate sex specific chromosomal differences in 2 males and 2 females of their target species, and fail to identify any differences. They also examine the distribution across metaphase spreads of two common repeats -- GATA and telomeric repeats. I found this a bit odd, as novel repeats on de novo chromosomes could be based on any motif, and not necessarily one of the two motifs chosen. A more exhaustive examination of potential microsatellite repeats would have been more appropriate. Overall, though, I found the approach to be appropriate and the results convincing.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This paper reports a negative result in the context of previous work that had yielded a positive result. Making such a case is always difficult, but in this case the reinterpretation of earlier work and the application of more contemporary approaches to detecting sex linked chromosomal markers is convincing. The authors do not overspeculate.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is an important paper because it reverses what is clearly a misinterpretation of the chromosomes of P. smitthii. It will be good to see this work published. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Turtles of the genera Geoemyda and Pangshura (Testudines: Geoemydidae) lack differentiated sex chromosomes: the end of a 40-year error cascade for Pangshura (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6241v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 13, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Please see General comments for the author below
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Please see General comments for the author below
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Please see General comments for the author below
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I am pleased to receive this manuscript to review again. I was positive the first time I reviewed it, and the authors corrected most of the issues raised in the previous review. There are still some pending issues or new issues that need addressing and which I detail below. Thus my review contains some of text from my previous review updated to bring up the issues that still need resolving. The present manuscript describes the results from a molecular/classic cytogenetics study of three turtle species from the family Geoemydidae in search of sex chromosomes. Some of the data are first time reports for some of this taxa. The data appear robust and indicate that Geoemyda japonica, Geoemyda spengleri, and Pangshura smithii all lack a sex chromosome system detectable at the resolution of the CGH methods used in this study. Importantly, the new data from Pangshura smithii refute a previous report of ZZ/ZW in this species from 1975 that used only Giemsa staining and what appears to be a erroneous assignment of homologous chromosomes. Thus, the results of this study constitute an important contribution not only to cytogenetics but also to evolutionary biology as they alter our understanding of the evolution of sex determination and sex chromosomes in turtles, and I am enthusiastic in seeing this work published. However, the manuscript suffers from some deficiencies, mainly in presentation and grammar, that need addressing before publication. I detail my concerns below. Table 1. The provenance of each of the animals examined must be included in the text or table. Were these animals from the wild (and if so from which location), or captive bred (and if so, from a zoo, a pet store, a private collection)? Ln 77: Please clarify why the authors are certain that Chaowen studied G. spengleri? They do explain nicely why Nakamura studied G. japonica, but the same clarification would be useful for Chaowen’s study. Ln 112-117: The methods here need more detail. The blood culture and chromosome preparation protocols needs description so that the study can be replicated by the scientific community. The authors should include a brief description even if they cite Pokorna et al 2010 as the source of the protocol as this should be a standalone manuscript. Same for CGH in Ln 144. Also, the other version of this paper that I reviewed stated that the C banding was done with modifications to Sumner’s C banding but those were not described? This version simply omitted the mention of the modification, when the authors should instead include the modifications that were done. This again is crucial for the reproducibility of the study by others. Ln 150: Replace ‘our study material’ with ‘the specimens examined here’. Figure 3. Panels a and c should be kept as they are. However, all the reassignments of chromosomes to pairs need to be clearly shown in panel b (not just mention this in the text where the description is harder to follow), but only the ZW chromosomes are traced in panel b). For instance, the authors moved the W from the ZW pair to pair 6, and so you should show where the chromosome from pair6 that is no longer there move to (which seemed to have been assigned to pair 9). Furthermore, a new pair 6 is now assigned in panel b compared to panel a. And so on and so forth. Perhaps panel b would be better as a two column (or two row) figure containing the original and the new arrangement of chromosomes, where the correspondence of chromosomes to pairs is denoted by lines connecting them. Attached is a crude (and incomplete example of such a figure, showing the correspondence for only some of the chromosomes). Ln 202-204. Odd wording. I suggest replacing “identified as a chromosome from the pairs 16 to 26’ with ‘better reassigned as a homolog of one of the pairs 16 to 26’, or something to that effect. ln 204-206. Likewise, please reword as: ‘Additionally, the metacentric chromosome identified by Sharma et al. (1975) as the W chromosome should be reassigned as a homolog of pair 7, 8 or 9’. ln 207. Again, I suggest rewording here. Perhaps ‘After simple rearrangement of the original karyogram, no obviously heteromorphic pair of chromosomes is detectable (Figure 3b), consistent with our own karyotyping of new specimens (Figure 3c). Ln 216. Replace ‘and’ with ‘or’. Ln 218. Add ‘the’ before ‘incorrect’. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Turtles of the genera Geoemyda and Pangshura (Testudines: Geoemydidae) lack differentiated sex chromosomes: the end of a 40-year error cascade for Pangshura (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6241v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 29, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
