Review History for The vaccinaTion & Hpv Knowledge (THinK) questionnaire: a reliability and validity study on a sample of women living in Sicily (southern-Italy) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The vaccina T ion & H pv K nowledge (THinK) questionnaire: a reliability and validity study on a sample of women living in Sicily (southern-Italy) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 21st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 13th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on December 3rd, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 10th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Offer Erez
·
Dec 10, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The atithors have addressed the comments raised by the reviewers and the manuscript can be accepted for publication in its current format
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 3, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Offer Erez
·
Nov 13, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript recieved favorable reviews from the reviewers. However, there are still some aspects that needs further revision by authors. [# PeerJ Staff Note: It is PeerJ policy that additional references suggested during the peer-review process should only be included if the authors are in agreement that they are relevant and useful #]
label_author_1
Giuseppe La Torre ·
Oct 13, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
English used throughout the manuscript was clear and unambiguous, professional The literature references describe a partial evidence produced in Italy on this issue. I suggest to consider these papers both for the introduction and the Discussion sections Napolitano F, Napolitano P, Liguori G, Angelillo IF. Human papillomavirus infection and vaccination: Knowledge and attitudes among young males in Italy. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2016 Jun 2;12(6):1504-10 Santangelo OE, Provenzano S, Firenze A. Knowledge of sexually transmitted infections and sex-at-risk among Italian students of health professions. Data from a one-month survey. Ann Ist Super Sanita. 2018 Jan-Mar;54(1):40-48. La Torre G, De Vito E, Ficarra MG, Firenze A, Gregorio P, Miccoli S, Giraldi G, Unim B, De Belvis G, Boccia A, Saulle R; HPV Collaborative Group, Semyonov L, Ferrara M, Langiano E, Capizzi S, Nardella R, Marsala MG, Bonanno V, Ferrara C, Guidi E, Bergamini M, Lupi S. Knowledge, opinions and attitudes of Italian mothers towards HPV vaccination and Pap test. Tumori. 2015 May-Jun;101(3):339-46 Guzzetta G, Faustini L, Panatto D, Gasparini R, Manfredi P. The impact of HPV female immunization in Italy: model based predictions. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 11;9(3):e91698. La Torre G, De Vito E, Ficarra MG, Firenze A, Gregorio P, Boccia A; HPV Collaborative Group. Is there a lack of information on HPV vaccination given by health professionals to young women? Vaccine. 2013 Oct 1;31(42):4710-3 Pelullo CP, Di Giuseppe G, Angelillo IF. Human papillomavirus infection: knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors among lesbian, gay men, and bisexual in Italy. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e42856 Sopracordevole F, Cigolot F, Gardonio V, Di Giuseppe J, Boselli F, Ciavattini A. Teenagers' knowledge about HPV infection and HPV vaccination in the first year of the public vaccination programme. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2012 Sep;31(9):2319-25 Pelucchi C, Esposito S, Galeone C, Semino M, Sabatini C, Picciolli I, Consolo S, Milani G, Principi N. Knowledge of human papillomavirus infection and its prevention among adolescents and parents in the greater Milan area, Northern Italy. BMC Public Health. 2010 Jun 28;10:378 The structure, figures and tables are professionally edited. Raw data are shared. The structure of the article has an acceptable format of ‘standard sections’ Figures 1 and 2are relevant to the content of the article, of sufficient resolution, and appropriately described and labeled. Appropriate raw data has been made available, in accordance with PeerJ Data Sharing policy. Relevant results are related to hypotheses formulated in the aim of the study.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The object of the primary research is original, since according to my knowledge, there is no validated questionnaire to study the specific issue raised by the authors The research question is clearly define, relevant and meaningful. The knowledge gap being investigated is identified in the Introduction section The investigation has been conducted rigorously and to a high technical standard. The authors used a cross-sectional approach, and this is correct to answer their research question. Methods are described with sufficient information to be reproducible by another investigator. In the statistical paragraph the authors are requested to give a reference for justifying the Internal consistency.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are interesting, and the authors at the end of the manuscript clearly state there is the need to replicate the study with a larger sample for test-retest reliability issue. Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled. The data on which the conclusions are based are provided in an Excel file. I made my own analysis with SPPS. While I found 0.882 for the first dimension (between Q9 and Q13), 0.784 for the second dimension, and 0.732 for the last dimension, for the whole for the whole questionnaire I found a value of 0.816. Please check your results carefully. In the discussion, clearly state the impact of the use of this questionnaire from a public health perspective. Conclusion are well stated. However, as already said above, some references at the national level are lacking.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a very interesting paper concerning the validity and reliability of a questionnaire in measuring HPV knowledge and HPV vaccination. The paper is of interest for an international reader and could be useful to other researchers involved on this topic. Some minor amendments are required, as stated above and following also the following points: -Line 72-74. The authors stated “Data have been collected through a cross-sectional survey conducted at the “Paolo Giaccone” University Hospital in Palermo (Sicily).”. this statement must be moved to the Methods section -In the Methods the authors need to describe how and when the participants were selected. Sample size calculations are not reported. If the authors think these are not applicable in this case, please explain in details. Cite this review as
La Torre G ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "The vaccinaTion & Hpv Knowledge (THinK) questionnaire: a reliability and validity study on a sample of women living in Sicily (southern-Italy) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6254v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 8, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is interesting and deal with an important topic of public health. The aim of the study is clear. Discussion and conclusion are related to the aim of the article and are well structured. The English used is simple but clear. Although there are few comments and suggestions I would like to do. In the abstract, section method, the age of women interviewed is not specified. In the introduction the author talks about "bivalent, tetravalent and "enavalent" vaccine (at lines 45, 47, 50), I suggest to give a little introduction of these vaccines and specify the genotype of HPV addressed. The reason why the survey is conducted among women over 25 should be clarified (lines 63-65).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This primary research article is in line with aims and scope of the journal. Research question is well defined, although the aim is to assess knowledge and attitude not awareness. This consideration is for both aim of the study and the method section. Materials and methods is complete and described with sufficient details. The reliability and validity is properly evaluated.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data are good and well presented. In the results a table about socio-demographic characteristics is missing. It would be better to give more explanations about the enrollment of women aged above 25 years, considering the vaccine is recommended only at a young age before sexual activity and exposure to virus. It could be added consideration about the importance of a correct culture about vaccine among the whole population that influence at a different level parent's and adolescent choice. It would be useful to report the internal consistency of the whole questionnaire and single sub scales in a table.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The article is mainly well-structured, clear and correct in all its sections. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "The vaccinaTion & Hpv Knowledge (THinK) questionnaire: a reliability and validity study on a sample of women living in Sicily (southern-Italy) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6254v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 21, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
