Review History for Chicks change their pecking behaviour towards stationary and mobile food sources over the first 12 weeks of life: improvement and discontinuities [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Chicks change their pecking behaviour towards stationary and mobile food sources over the first 12 weeks of life: improvement and discontinuities To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 26th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 5th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on September 27th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 27th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Giorgio Vallortigara
·
Sep 27, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I believe you successfully answered all issues raised by the Reviewers and that the paper can be published.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 27, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Giorgio Vallortigara
·
Aug 5, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both Reviewers liked your paper but recommended some minor revisions. Please pay attention in particular to providing the non-specialist readers with adequate background.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 30, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
It is not clear why Authors decided to use these formula to calculate the peck rate or the peck feeding. Do the Authors can add some References or describe better their choices?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I have really appreciated the topic discussed in this article, but I strongly recommend the Authors to describe better the behavioral and the cognitive characteristics of the animal model that they have employed in their study. In this way the article would be more interesting to a wider number of readers, that maybe do not know well this bird. For example, it is well known that day-old domestic chicks prefer to peck symmetric rather than non-symmetric objects (see Elena Clara et al.). Day-old domestic chicks are also able to remember up to 3 minutes where a food item (e.g. a mealworm) has disappeared (Regolin et al 2005). Day old chicks can also master numerical discrimination: for example they prefer 4 mealworms over 1 (Rugani et al. 2013), showing that they can discriminate between quantities. I also think that should be interesting to discuss the use, in scientific literature, of the mealworms to train day-old chicks to solve some cognitive problems. Using mealworms as reinforcement, chicks can learn to identify the container, in a series of identical containers, that contains the food reinforcement. They can learn to identify the third, the forth or the six container in a series of 10 identical (Rugani et al. 2007, 2010, 2011). In the end a curiosity: The Authors found a difference in the peck rate between the chicks hatched earlier in June with respect to those hatched in September. Did the Authors find any difference between these two groups of chicks? For example did they notice differences of weigh, or something else? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Chicks change their pecking behaviour towards stationary and mobile food sources over the first 12 weeks of life: improvement and discontinuities (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.626v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 4, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The ms is clearly framed despite poor in terms of broader background. For instance, Authors may be interested in citing works investigating chicks' foraging habits and their development depending on social interactions which, in natural environments, are of primary importance (e.g., studies reviewed in Nicol 2004, Learning & Behavior, 32(1): 72-81). - is the word "compliment" correct (lines 33, 367)? According to the definition of the oxford dictionaries, should be complEment, instead - please check "et al.," in the main text, which is not always followed by "dot" and "comma" - line 357, please add a full stop after the word seasons - please check journal abbreviations / format in the reference list
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Why did Authors checked for the effect of the position of cages? Were they kept in different places (i.e., some closer to sources of smell, heat, light)? The position is not specified in the description of the methods. Why the foraging activity of the first week was not analyzed - if considered that chicks belong to precocial species (line 302)? Similarly, why the tenebrio molitor was inserted only starting from the 5th week onward? Why in Exp 3 Authors tested ten birds only reducing to 1/3 the sample size from Exp 1?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
It is not clear whether eggs were supplied from a commercial hatchery or rather small local farms: this may have implications on the effects discussed. The observed difference between batches may depend on differences between roosters' propensity to forage rather than months of hatching. Effects of domestication (e.g., Rubin et al., 2010, Nature, 464: 587-591) should be discussed in the first case at least, since commercial rearing has overcome a series of *limitations* of natural seasonal breeding.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Chicks change their pecking behaviour towards stationary and mobile food sources over the first 12 weeks of life: improvement and discontinuities (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.626v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 26, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
