Review History for Individual and flock immunity responses of naïve ducks on smallholder farms after vaccination with H5N1 Avian Influenza vaccine: a study in a province of the Mekong Delta, Vietnam [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Individual and flock immunity responses of naïve ducks on smallholder farms after vaccination with H5N1 Avian Influenza vaccine: a study in a province of the Mekong Delta, Vietnam To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 9th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 25th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on December 7th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 11th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Antonella Prisco
·
Dec 11, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I can confirm that the revision has addressed all the points raised by the reviewers. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Jennifer Vonk, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 7, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Antonella Prisco
·
Oct 25, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
In order to avoid data misinterpretation, it is important that you discuss the use of strain ACkScot59 H5 as antigen in serological assay. I think it is also important to include a discussion of other published studies that evaluated the effectiveness of the vaccine in inducing immunological responses under field conditions.
label_author_1
Ahmed Mostafa ·
Oct 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript “#31719” by Huynh et al., entitled “Individual and flock immunity responses of naïve ducks on smallholder farms after vaccination with H5N1 Avian Influenza vaccine: a study in a province of the Mekong Delta, Vietnam” is a well-designed and well written account providing important information on humoral immune responses of ducks to the applied H5N1 vaccine under field conditions in Vietnam. This study is also essential for guiding the veterinary authorities, either locally in Vietnam or worldwide, to efficiently adopt effective booster vaccine protocol to vaccinate ducks which are commonly reared together with other avian species in hotspots areas of avian influenza viruses. Generally, the English language of the manuscript is adequate; the quality of the figure and tables is satisfactory, the reference list cover the relevant literature adequately and in an objective manner. The topic is timely and interesting and the results are presented well. However, the following points should be addressed: 1.Line 36-37 and line 107: remove “at 21-day intervals”. It is anyway stated in line 37 and may be confusing with the prevaccination sampling time point. 2.Line 57: replace “H5 HPAI viruses” with either “H5Nx HPAI viruses” or H5-type HPAI viruses” and keep it consistent throughout the manuscript (e.g. line 67, Line 102, line 123) 3.Line 64-65: the statement “The vaccine will continue to be used in the foreseeable future because it provides a certain protective effect against HPAI to the poultry population” is scientifically not optimum. Please phrase it for the present taking into consideration the rapid evolution of these H5-type strains from clade 2.3.2<U+2192>2.3.2.1a<U+2192>2.3.2.1b <U+2192>2.3.2.1c and possible genetic and antigenic evolution into different subclades. 4.Line 73: keep distance between “H5N1” and “HPAI”. 5.Line 81-83: Concerning the statement “published data on the effectiveness of vaccines against avian influenza (AI), particularly the Re-6 vaccine, in inducing antibody response in domestic ducks under field conditions remain limited”, have the authors compared their data with similar studies in different geographical localities (e.g. Kandeil et al., 2017. Avian influenza H5N1 vaccination efficacy in Egyptian backyard poultry. Vaccine; 35 (45): 6195-6201). If not please discuss. 6.Line 93: replace “The Sample size” with Sample size. 7.Line 111: what other factors which can lead to H5-specific antibodies other than maternal antibodies or active infections of newly born duck. If no, please remove “or other unknown factors” and rephrase the statement accordingly. 8.Line 113: replace “which contains the HA gene of” with “which expresses the HA antigen of”. 9.Line 181: please provide a rationale before direct stating of the results (e.g. To investigate that maternal antibodies have already depleted, prevaccination HI titers for studied ducks were evaluated”. 10.Line 183: remove “with RAHO VI”. 11.Line 191: replace “produced” with “showed”. 12.Line 193: replace “H5N1 vaccine” with “Re-6 vaccine”. 13.Line 218-219: Have the authors checked or can check the effectiveness of induced antibodies titers to protect duck after first and booster vaccination doses (Challenge infection with currently circulating H5N1 HPAIV (Clade 2.3.2.1c))? 14. Line 240 and Line 298: discuss other studies which are performed under field or backyard setting in different geographical localities dealing with duck and other avian species` vaccination and adopting booster vaccination protocol. Cite this review as
Mostafa A ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Individual and flock immunity responses of naïve ducks on smallholder farms after vaccination with H5N1 Avian Influenza vaccine: a study in a province of the Mekong Delta, Vietnam (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6268v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Rabeh El shesheny ·
Oct 25, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript by Huynh et. al. entitled “Individual and flock immunity responses of naïve ducks on smallholder farms after vaccination with H5N1 Avian Influenza vaccine: a study in a province of the Mekong Delta, Vietnam” is a straightforward to determine immunity responses against influenza H5N1 in duck smallholder farms after vaccination. vaccination has played a crucial role in the strategy for the prevention and control of H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI). This study is essential for guiding the veterinary authorities.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors use well accepted methods in evaluating antibody responses of immunologically nai¨ve domestic ducks to H5N1 avian influenza vaccine currently used in the national mass vaccination program of Vietnam.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors use well accepted methods in evaluating antibody responses of immunologically nai¨ve domestic ducks to H5N1 avian influenza vaccine currently used in the national mass vaccination program of Vietnam. However, there appears to be some careless misinterpretation of results, which needs checking and revision by the authors. Several hemagglutinin gene clades were detected in Vietnam clade 1.1.2 was predominant in 2012 and 2013 but gradually disappeared and clades 2.3.2.1a, 2.3.2.1b, and 2.3.2.1c from 2012 and recently clade 2.3.4.4 were detected. Why the authors used strain ACkScot59 H5 as antigen in serological assay? And what the antigenic similarity between this strain and other strains circulated in Vietnam?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Minor Comments: 1-line 58; “…the failure of other anti-HPAI measures.” It is unclear the auther must explain what other measurements to control of avian influenza HP 2-line 108 “…after the primary vaccination (21 dpv), and 21 days after the booster vaccination (21 dpbv) Can the authors use consistent abbreviation in all manuscript. 3-In table 1 please include description for superscript letter a and b 4-In discussion, were there any published studies in literature on the evaluated the effectiveness of the vaccine in inducing immunological responses under field conditions? These should be discussed and compared to the result presented here. Cite this review as
El shesheny R ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Individual and flock immunity responses of naïve ducks on smallholder farms after vaccination with H5N1 Avian Influenza vaccine: a study in a province of the Mekong Delta, Vietnam (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6268v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 9, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
