Review History for Accessible molecular phylogenomics at no cost: obtaining 14 new mitogenomes for the ant subfamily Pseudomyrmecinae from public data [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Accessible molecular phylogenomics at no cost: obtaining 14 new mitogenomes for the ant subfamily Pseudomyrmecinae from public data To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 7th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 20th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on December 9th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 11th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Kimberly Bishop-Lilly
·
Dec 11, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for carefully addressing all the reviewers' comments. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Keith Crandall, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 9, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Kimberly Bishop-Lilly
·
Nov 20, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers were positive about this manuscript and both of them have taken the time to provide what I think are very detailed and helpful critiques. One reviewer has provided an annotated version of the manuscript. Please think carefully through all the feedback that has been provided and do your best to incorporate edits that address these points.
label_author_1
Thiago Parente ·
Nov 17, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
ENGLISH: English is clear, at least for another native portuguese speaker. However, I could identify some typos throughout the MS. For example, 1 - on the fourth line of the Abstract authors write "... amount of genome data ..." rather than "amount of genomic data"; 2 - at the end of the Abstract "Formcidae" [missing i] rather than "Formicidae"; 3 - 1 to 9 are frequently written as numerals; 4 - also pay attention to prepositions and conjunctions, as in line 188 where authors used "... the coverage was higher once the entire ..." and it should be "higher as the entire". ARTICLE STRUCTURE: In Figure 1 Cytochrome oxide I and II are referred as COI and COII in the caption but as cox1 and cox2 in the figure. Should be harmonised. The caption of Figure 2 states “Synteny of all complete mitogenomes available on Genbank”, but only five mitogenomes are shown. From the main text, it is easy to infer those five mitogenomes are representative from those available in Genbank for the family, but caption should be more precisely written. Also the caption of Figure 2 says “arrow(s)”, but there are lines and not arrows in the figure.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
METHODS: Line 128 – Authors say “… except by the dataset for Tetraponera rufonigra, that had to be trimmed […] to produce sequences with the same length”. This is not totally clear. The dataset for the other species were not trimmed? Maybe a little more background on the used datasets would be elucidative. Moreover, should not the datasets for all species be trimmed for their quality (to guarantee, for example, PHRED > 30)?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Line 261 - "P. ferrugineus group have approximately the same genome size in bp, suggesting that this group is monophyletic.”. Genome size per se is not suggestive of phylogenetic proximity or relationship. Line 290 – “(iii) our own observations regarding mitogenome size.”. Same comment as above. Line 365 – “In the later case [tree using the complete mitochondrial sequence], a clade consisting of myrmicine ants Myrmica scabrinois, Pristomyrmex punctatus and Atta texana appear as basal group”. However, these three species does not form an clade in the correspondent figure, as they do not share an exclusive common ancestor.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The MS #32218 reanalyses raw reads from high throughput DNA sequencing deposited in public databases to make more sense from this freely available information, to increase the amount of structured genetic information about an ant family and to contribute to the understanding of their evolution and ecological habits. In the opinion of this reviewer it was performed in accordance with the standard methods used in the field, it has merit and, therefore, should be accepted for publication. Before final acceptance, however, the points commented in the first three sections should be addressed. In addition, I also suggest: 1 - line 80, include "ecological" in "There are two known groups ..."; 2 - Line 252, "... AT bias in the control region that exceeds 90%", authors could provide the percentage of AT in the control regions of the newly assembled mitogenomes; and 3 - in the discussion, authors should consider to give more emphasis to the "comparative mitogenomics" rather than to the "Phylogenomic relationship of Formicidae inferred using mitogenome data". Note that the "comparative mitogenomics" covers half of a page while the "Phylogenomic relationship of Formicidae inferred using mitogenome data" spams more than five pages. The main contribution of this paper is the "Assembling 14 new mitogenomes", as reflected in the title, but not in the discussion. Cite this review as
Parente T ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Accessible molecular phylogenomics at no cost: obtaining 14 new mitogenomes for the ant subfamily Pseudomyrmecinae from public data (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6271v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 20, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
All information are in the pdf that I attached.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
All information are in the pdf that I attached.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
All information are in the pdf that I attached.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
All information are in the pdf that I attached. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Accessible molecular phylogenomics at no cost: obtaining 14 new mitogenomes for the ant subfamily Pseudomyrmecinae from public data (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6271v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 7, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
