Review History for Opioid distribution trends (2006–2017) in the US Territories [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Opioid distribution trends (2006–2017) in the US Territories To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 22nd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 26th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on December 7th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 11th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mark Connor
·
Dec 11, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have done a good job responding to the comments of the Reviewers, and with the exception of the use of black type of a red background in the response letter, which was hard to take first thing in the morning, it is fine. As an editorial comment (i.e. me editorializing, rather than asking for anything more), I think that it is becoming more reasonable to start citing grey literature, or non-peer reviewed material, as long as it is clear what it is. The speed with which information is becoming available and policy is changing means that standard journal publication is becoming too slow for some things. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Stephen Macknik, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 7, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mark Connor
·
Sep 26, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
This paper is a relatively straightforward reporting of opioid use data in understudied areas of the US and dependencies. As it stands it serves to aggregate data, but little else. The reviewers indicate several areas for potential enrichment, in particular inclusion of data about opioid poisonings and about the number of individuals prescribed. It would also be interesting to know if there was any data about non-prescription opioid use in the areas under study. Finally, I think it would also be quite useful to know how the territories compared with the US as a whole, in addition to relevant geographically/demographically equivalent states. The authors state the territories are largely populated by minority groups, this is perhaps true when compared with the whole of the USA, but presumably local ethnicities are not minority groups in these locations, which gives under-representation/underserving a different dynamic than speaking about a large mainland city. Comparing to the US as a whole would also mitigate against the fact that Florida used to be a source of opioids for many people in addition to state residents – a key feature of these Territories (and Hawaii) is geographical isolation, and so the assumption that most opioids are being used by locals is reasonable. For Florida it is not. Provision of this data or these comparators is an opportunity and a request, not a requirement. There are several things that the authors must to address in a revised paper. I share Reviewer’s concerns about the use of a paired t-test to compare MME per capita by location; paired t-tests are usually reserved for repeated measures from the same population, not measurement of the same thing in different populations. This should be redone. It is also unclear to me whether route of administration has been considered in MME calculations – in other words, why not use oral morphine equivalents. Other comments from the reviewers should be considered (i.e., the multiple uses of buprenorphine, possibility of changes in population of the time of the study). The Results section restates many numbers from the Tables, which should be avoided. Comments about changes from 2016 to 2017 are really meaningless unless compared to changes in previous years. Even though the Results section is short as is, it could benefit from more focus and purposeful presentation of the data.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 6, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
not applicable
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See below under general comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
General comments This article is basically reporting bulk distribution of opioids in 3 US territories and 2 US states – corrected with morphine equivalents and then for population. It doesn’t really do much more than describe these data (are these data publically available anyway?). It isn’t able to say whether changes are due to increased/decreased doses or more/less people? Have recent decreases due to reduced prescribing led to more illicit opioids? Can any changes be linked to any particular events ? The key to making this paper interesting would be to have some outcome data such as overdose/poisoning deaths in each territory. At the moment it’s a small amount of data and a lot of speculation. If they can’t add more interesting data it would be much better as a brief report with very little introduction or discussion. The discussion is way too long for such a thin paper. Specific points The exclusion of American Samoa because of low volumes makes no sense. Buprenorphine is used as an analgesic as well as for opioid dependence. Opioids are usually corrected to oral morphine equivalents (ie conversion rates for IV, dermal and oral preps are different) – it is unclear if that has been done in these MME. It would make more sense to report pop adjusted OTP and analgesic opioids separately – the % of total analysis (Fig 2) is less relevant than the actual rates of each. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Opioid distribution trends (2006–2017) in the US Territories (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6272v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Marina Santiago ·
Sep 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The language used is mostly clear and unambiguous. A couple of recommendations are suggested below to help increase clarity to readers. Line 181-182: “Similarly, hospitals distributed 26.6% in Guam, …”. To increase clarify it would be better to say distributed 26.6% of opioids in Guam,…. Figure 1: Caption of Figure 1 needs to be rewritten to increase clarity. It’s missing (D). Good background provided with sufficient reference. Line 97-98: According to table provided US Virgin Islands is populated by mainly Black/African American which is different from comparison States. This need to be highlighted as drug misuse in Black/African American population is known to be different from White populations. The following is recommended to support/enrich discussion: Line 227: Meperidine decreased distribution more likely to be due to change in guidelines than awareness of opioid addiction crisis. (Where has all the meperidine gone? Dobbins E, Nursing2010: January 2010 - Volume 40 - Issue 1 - p 65–66, doi: 10.1097/01.NURSE.0000365924.16631.a4). Line 253-254: Needs to correlate low methadone use to the absence of NTP in Guam. The tables are clear however for table 1 it would be interesting to make it easier to visualise opioids change. Maybe different colour for up and down changes (or colours in a scale). Table 2: Missing parenthesis – Hawaii oxycodone) Figure 1A to C are well designed and easy to understand. But figure not clear what it is representing, is it mean of overtime (2006-2016) MME per person? Better to use scatter plot instead of bar graph. Figure 2: It would be interesting to have both graphs under the same Y-axis. It would make the graphs easily comparable.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Good experimental design and in the scope of the journal. It clearly fills an identified knowledge gap. When calculating MME per capita was only 2010 census used? If so, this needs to be added as a limitation to the research. Population numbers can change considerably in 10 years and using the same population to calculate MME per capita over 10 years can introduce an error to this data set.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are valid and benefit to literature clearly stated. Data is robust and raw data can be accessed online. Line 144: Why paired t-test used to compare the MME per capita by location? It is not clear to me why using paired t-test. Although data is coming from the same database, it is about different sample groups. Interesting conclusion highlighting answer to the research question and important points which could explain differences found.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is an interesting manuscript, well written and straight to the point. More information on how some of the differences encountered could be related to specific policies and changes in the territories would have been appreciated. Cite this review as
Santiago M ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Opioid distribution trends (2006–2017) in the US Territories (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6272v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 22, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
