Review History for Convergent origin of the narrowly lanceolate leaf in the genus Aster—with special reference to an unexpected discovery of a new Aster species from East China [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Convergent origin of the narrowly lanceolate leaf in the genus Aster —with special reference to an unexpected discovery of a new Aster species from East China To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 10th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 15th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on December 6th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 15th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alastair Culham
·
Dec 15, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for dealing so comprehensively with the feedback from the reviewers. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Sheila McCormick, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 12, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No further amendments required.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No further amendments required.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No further amendments required.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The amended manuscript has greatly improved in both language and clarity, after incorporating the comments provided by the reviewers. The current text reads well, with sufficient explanatory information included. The added comparison table helps the reader compare the four taxa easily. I recommend this manuscript for publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Convergent origin of the narrowly lanceolate leaf in the genus Aster—with special reference to an unexpected discovery of a new Aster species from East China (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6288v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 6, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alastair Culham
·
Nov 15, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers and I are in agreement that this manuscript is worthy of publication after minor revision. Please note the annotations made by the reviewers. You do not need to make all the marked alterations but should explain why, if you have chosen not to follow the advice.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 5, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The work provides sufficient context for the reader to engage with the topic, and the references given are relevant and necessary. The hypothesis is linked to the methodology used and made the focus of the discussion and species description. The specimen photographs as well as the botanical diagram are helpful and with appropriate scale bars. The species description at the end contains necessary detail. Some proof reading would help pick up on errors and typos in the manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
As my background is not molecular, I will focus on my area of expertise which is morphology. The use of rudimentary linear morphometric tools is sufficient to answer the questions posed. The analysis of leaf shape and habitat correlation was interesting although I wonder why the authors elected to use a technique that required categorisation of the leaf shape index? The authors clearly state that this is in line with the published knowledge but I think this paragraph (line 165) would benefit by a further explanatory statement on the use of a discrete method as opposed to a continuous. Further, is there a bias from the use of a ratio as opposed to inspecting covariance of the measured variables independently?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
In the results presentation, the morphological species comparison would benefit for a comparison table, for example the findings in paragraph starting line 277 would be easier to follow in a table format.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Convergent origin of the narrowly lanceolate leaf in the genus Aster—with special reference to an unexpected discovery of a new Aster species from East China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6288v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Luc Brouillet ·
Nov 9, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The paper is generally well-written. Nonetheless, I made some suggestions on the manuscript to help improve the text. The introduction provide a clear context for the study. The literature cited is relevant and appears thorough. The structure of the paper is conform to the norms in the field. The figures are pertinent and sufficient for the purpose of the paper. In particular, the photographs and line drawing of the new taxon are excellent. I checked the authors' deposit statements and all seems in order. The GenBank data are already available and were properly deposited.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research reported is novel and is well within the scope of the Journal. Nobody has reported on leaf character evolution in tribe Astereae (Asteraceae) before and the subject is interesting also in a wider context. The research questions raised by the authors are pertinent and appropriately defined given context provided. The methods reported for plant phylogenetic analysis are standard in the field and are well-known and proven. The taxonomic sampling appears adequate given the aims of the study. The Pagel approach used for correlations is appropriate for the type of question raised by the authors.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The authors could have confined themselves to merely indicate that evolution of narrowly lanceolate leaves result from parallel evolution in Aster (a result readily discernible from the phylogeny presented), but they also investigated a possible driving force behind the evolution of that trail: its correlation with riparian habitats. They could not identify however, a precise order of changes. Based on their analyses, the authors suggest a most likely path, nonetheless. This appears reasonable. Taxonomic novelty: the authors have conformed with PeerJ policies concerning the new species and meet ICBN standards. The authors clearly demonstrate the distinction between their new taxon and the superficially similar A. dolichophyllus, both phylogenetically and micromorphologically. The taxonomic description at the end of the paper is of high quality and thorough. The overall conclusions are cogent.
Comments for the author
This is an interesting paper that combined taxonomy and evolutionary biology, each supporting the other. It is infrequent that this is done in plant taxonomy and the authors are commanded for having done so. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Brouillet L ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Convergent origin of the narrowly lanceolate leaf in the genus Aster—with special reference to an unexpected discovery of a new Aster species from East China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6288v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 10, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
