Review History for Improving the efficiency of the Fukui trap as a capture tool for the invasive European green crab (Carcinus maenas) in Newfoundland, Canada [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Improving the efficiency of the Fukui trap as a capture tool for the invasive European green crab ( Carcinus maenas ) in Newfoundland, Canada To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 13th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 3rd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on December 18th, 2018 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 19th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Donald Kramer
·
Dec 19, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the careful revision and rebuttal letter. I now consider the manuscript ready for publication. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by James Reimer, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 18, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Donald Kramer
·
Oct 3, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I apologize for the delay in making a decision on your manuscript. The reviews arrived along several revised manuscripts, creating a substantial backlog. We ended up with three reviewers for your manuscript. All three concur that your is an interesting and useful study, well executed and clearly presented. I agree with this. It is one of the best-written manuscripts that I have encountered. They have provided a number of suggested minor revisions. I also noted a few minor issues when reading the manuscript. Editor’s Comments: L96 fourth (sp) L172. I don’t think you defined the abbreviations in Eqn 1 and 2. L202, 213. I find your Results sub-heads a bit awkward. They read more like a Methods section. Perhaps 3.1 could be called something like ‘Trapping effort and bycatch’, 3.2 could be eliminated, 3.2.1 could be changed to 3.2 and called something like ‘Effect of trap type on total catch’, and 3.2.2 could be changed to 3.3 and called something like ‘Effect of trap type on crab size’. L216, 218, Tables 4, 5. I don’t think P can actually be zero, even if the program output gives this value. I think that p = 0.000 would be better changed to p < 0.001. L225. Replace ‘is’ with ‘was’ for tense consistency. L241. Replace ‘were’ with ‘averaged’ as the sentence is referring to the mean, not all individuals. Fig. 2 caption, L3 ‘Maps B and C’.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 21, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I agree with the 4 points
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I agree with the 4 jpoints
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This detailed study aimed at improving the Fukui trap is very pertinent and timely and would be of great interest to the many researchers and managers around the world are using Fukui traps to monitor and manage green crab abundance in their invaded habitats. The manuscript is well written and easy to follow. The experimental design, field execution and data analysis are well described. The reader gets a clear picture of which modification to the trap yielded the greatest improvement in catches. I recommend that this study be published. Below are a few points the authors may want to consider. •I was confused because the % increase in efficiency, as described in lines 226-235, does not always match a simple calculation of CPUE of modified traps to control trap as tabulated in Table 2. See table below. Am I missing something, or did the authors make a simple calculation error? Trap TypeMean CPUETable 2 -CPUE modification/controlIncreased Efficiency lines 226-235 Control26.3 Sinker38.738.7/26.31.4759% - greater Mesh33.933.9/26.31.2929% - matches Assist45.945.9/26.31.7481% - greater String24.524.5/26.30.931.03 -- greater •It might be helpful to the reader if the authors were to made some rough estimate of how much time it would cost to make the modifications. Sinker may be easy to attach. But they are not cheap and not that readily available in large quantities, while the mesh method, that requires sewing would be very time consuming. •Starting with line 321 – continual trapping tends to preferentially remove large males from the system, as has been demonstrated by many researchers. But if it is done too well, it can have unintended consequences as Ted Grosholz found out in a closed system in Sea Drift Lagoon: http://www.marinij.com/environment-and-nature/20170820/stinson-beach-green-crab-invaders-vex-scientists In the absence of large males, young green crabs thrived, possibly indicating a lack of cannibalism and increased resources for the young crabs. ( – no need to include this in the manuscript, just something to keep in mind. )
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This detailed study aimed at improving the Fukui trap is very pertinent and timely and would be of great interest to the many researchers and managers around the world are using Fukui traps to monitor and manage green crab abundance in their invaded habitats. The manuscript is well written and easy to follow. The experimental design, field execution and data analysis are well described. The reader gets a clear picture of which modification to the trap yielded the greatest improvement in catches. I recommend that this study be published. Below are a few points the authors may want to consider. •I was confused because the % increase in efficiency, as described in lines 226-235, does not always match a simple calculation of CPUE of modified traps to control trap as tabulated in Table 2. See table below. Am I missing something, or did the authors make a simple calculation error? Trap TypeMean CPUETable 2 -CPUE modification/controlIncreased Efficiency lines 226-235 Control26.3 Sinker38.738.7/26.31.4759% - greater Mesh33.933.9/26.31.2929% - matches Assist45.945.9/26.31.7481% - greater String24.524.5/26.30.931.03 -- greater •It might be helpful to the reader if the authors were to made some rough estimate of how much time it would cost to make the modifications. Sinker may be easy to attach. But they are not cheap and not that readily available in large quantities, while the mesh method, that requires sewing would be very time consuming. •Starting with line 321 – continual trapping tends to preferentially remove large males from the system, as has been demonstrated by many researchers. But if it is done too well, it can have unintended consequences as Ted Grosholz found out in a closed system in Sea Drift Lagoon: http://www.marinij.com/environment-and-nature/20170820/stinson-beach-green-crab-invaders-vex-scientists In the absence of large males, young green crabs thrived, possibly indicating a lack of cannibalism and increased resources for the young crabs. ( – no need to include this in the manuscript, just something to keep in mind. ) Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Improving the efficiency of the Fukui trap as a capture tool for the invasive European green crab (Carcinus maenas) in Newfoundland, Canada (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6308v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 31, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No additional comments (see general comments).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No additional comments (see general comments).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No additional comments (see general comments).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
PeerJ MS 29803 This is an interesting article addressing an important issue: the efficiency of traps used for green crab fishery/harvesting programs. Although the focus of the study is on a rather practical issue, it also offers a wealth of information for those interested on the ecology of these populations. The introduction and stated goals are very clear. The experimental design and the statistics used to assess the differences among traps are rigorous, and the results are clear and described to a good level of detail. Tables and Figures are informative and of good quality. Some of those results are frankly spectacular (80% increase of efficiency!), so the authors should be commended for conducting a well prepared study based on solid preliminary information. The Discussion highlights the main implications of the results and is not speculative. The practical implications of the results gathered by this study are obvious, and would be of great help for those working on the ecology of this invasive species or those trying to manage its invasions. I deemed the article a solid piece of research and I recommend acceptance with very minor changes (see below). Specific comments Lines 40-41: I suggest adding Pickering et al. 2017 (Mar Env Res) and Poirier et al. 2018 (Helgoland Mar Res). Line 43: I suggest adding Rossong et al. 2006 (JEMBE) and 2012 (Biol Inv). Lines 93-96: If I understood the third modification correctly, please explain how tense that mesh was… in other words give us an idea about how “hard” or “stable” that floating “floor” was for the crabs crawling into the traps. 117-118: Briefly justify your choice of bait. 123-124: For the sake of the readers, briefly state whether you expect (or not) that spacing among traps to influence catch rates. 210-212: Provide a value (range?) of how many rock crabs were caught, to have a sense of how small the bycatch was. 289-291: It is not entirely clear what difference the sinker made (in comparison to the strings) to increase catch while reducing or maintaining escape rates low. Instead of altering escape rates, could the crabs use the sinkers somehow to help themselves to enter the traps and increase catch instead? 308-310: What about replacing that mesh with an acrylic or plastic plate or similar dimensions? 332-334: This statement is correct but is not justifiable given the results you report: you did not find larger females in the modified traps. I suggest you state “if future modifications also increase the size of females being caught… “ 337-339 and 343-346: Although Poirier et al (2018; Fisheries Res) assessed a modification on a different gear (fyke net), I think is valuable to cite that work here as those results will make your results even more interesting (fukui bycatch is much lower). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Improving the efficiency of the Fukui trap as a capture tool for the invasive European green crab (Carcinus maenas) in Newfoundland, Canada (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6308v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
P. Sean McDonald ·
Sep 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The purpose of the present paper is to evaluate modifications to the Fukui multi-species trap for removal of invasive European green crab in the waters of Newfoundland. The European green crab is a global invasive species and the Fukui trap is standard gear used in removal efforts in North America and elsewhere. These results will be useful to managers in many locales. At the same time, it is precisely because managers are likely to be interested in this work that I believe the authors should tread carefully in their recommendations (see below). The manuscript is well-written and clear and will make a valuable contribution. The introduction & background provide adequate context but additional information (or at least citations) covering the invasion of green crab would be appropriate.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research question is well defined, relevant & meaningful. I note the authors suggest their goal is to increase capture efficiency. However, capture efficiency is typically defined as the number of individuals caught as a proportion of the total number present. This is typically unknown. I would suggest the actual goal here is to increase catch per unit effort (CPUE). The methods are described with sufficient detail & information to replicate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Data are robust and statistical analysis is done appropriately. Conclusions are well stated (but see my thoughts below about contextualizing the results). It is important to note that these results pertain to the waters of Newfoundland. Managers/researchers using these modifications may see different results within their jurisdiction, particularly where bycatch is a concern.
Comments for the author
Line 293-294: The authors suggest the sinker method is durable but this likely depends on the longevity of the traps. I know several researchers who have used the same Fukui traps for more than 15 years. The openings tend to sag over time and I’m afraid any extra weight may accelerate the process. I think any statements about durability should specify the number of deployment hours over which the modification was tested. Line 336-356: The authors suggest the modifications do not increase bycatch. Again, I think it’s important to point out the context here given that green crab are a worldwide invader. While bycatch may be low in the waters of Newfoundland, conditions will be different elsewhere within the invasive range of green crab. In fact, on the US West Coast, researchers commonly restrict the size of the trap opening to reduce bycatch of demersal fish, sharks, and mammals. Line 321-333 I agree that removing large adult green crab may be ecologically beneficial. However, female crab have a larger per capita impact on population growth (given the size of an individual brood, possible sperm storage, etc) and should be targeted for removal. I think it would be good to test for differences in catch of male and female crab across the four modified trap types. Moreover, I think figure 4 would be more useful if it explicitly considered total number of crab of each sex captured in each of the modified trap types. Cite this review as
McDonald PS ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Improving the efficiency of the Fukui trap as a capture tool for the invasive European green crab (Carcinus maenas) in Newfoundland, Canada (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6308v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 13, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
