Review History for Evolving California genotypes of Avena barbata are derived from multiple introductions but still maintain substantial population structure [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evolving California genotypes of Avena barbata are derived from multiple introductions but still maintain substantial population structure To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 29th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 18th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on September 26th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 1st, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jana Vamosi
·
Oct 1, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revisions were all done well and I'm pleased to recommend acceptance.
External reviews were received for this submission. These reviews were used by the Editor when they made their decision, and can be downloaded below. Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter Download external reviews
- submitted Sep 26, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jana Vamosi
·
Aug 18, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript was sent to one of the original reviewers who was pleased with the way you handled the revisions. Just some very minor revisions left.
label_author_1
John Wilson ·
Aug 18, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I think the changes in focus and tone in response to the reviews from Axios were well done and I had no major comments on the revised manuscript. abstract "past noted"? 7-8 the pool of genetic variation can be increased through introductions from multiple sources. 87+92 "1970's"? Cite this review as
Wilson J ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evolving California genotypes of Avena barbata are derived from multiple introductions but still maintain substantial population structure (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.633v0.1/reviews/1 External reviews were received for this submission. These reviews were used by the Editor when they made their decision, and can be downloaded below. Download Original Submission (PDF)
Download external reviews
- submitted Jul 29, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
