Review History for Transcriptome profiling reveals the role of ZBTB38 knock-down in human neuroblastoma [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Transcriptome profiling reveals the role of ZBTB38 knock-down in human neuroblastoma To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 25th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 7th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on December 13th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 27th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Elena Papaleo
·
Dec 27, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am glad to accept the manuscript, which has been improved upon revision. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Keith Crandall, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 26, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This manuscript is greatly improved and meets the standard to be published in this journal. The very informative data is valuable to the neuroblastoma field. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Transcriptome profiling reveals the role of ZBTB38 knock-down in human neuroblastoma (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6352v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 13, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Elena Papaleo
·
Nov 7, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The manuscript has been carefully evaluated by two external reviewers. The reviewers found value in your work but substantial major revisions are requested. A more detailed experimental design needs to be implemented to convince about the conclusions on apoptosis activation, autophagy inhibition and p53 with key roles in this mechanism. Reviewer #1, in particular, indicated a clear plan for the experiments that can be included, which are important to address point by point. Moreover, the authors before resubmitting a revision should have help from a professional scientific English proofreader.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 25, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Authors found that ZBTB38 gene is downregulated in different tumors and its low expression is associated with good prognosis in LGG (Brain lower grade glioma). They studied the ZBTB38 downregulation effects on SH-SY5Y cells: ZBTB38 SiRNA led to a decrease of cell proliferation and viability. Furthermore, the RNA-sequencing has deepened the analysis of ZBTB38 silencing effects, offering possible molecular mechanisms that could be implicated in the signaling cascade. This story would be of interest, however, there are some points that need clarification and additional experiments to strengthen the claims. Authors should better described the proposed experiments: e.g., They have “a total of 2,036 (83.5%) down-regulated DEGs and 402 (16.5%) up-regulated DEGs were selected”. GO analysis is confusing; it is not clear on which group they have done the analysis so it is difficult to understand the data.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Major issues: - ZBTB38 is remarkable downregulated in UCEC and CESC tumor, but authors write “low expression of ZBTB38 was associated with improved the prognosis of the LGG (Brain lower grade glioma) patients (Fig. 2), suggesting that these changes are closely related to neuronal tumors.” What about UCEC and CESC? How do authors explain this point? - Taking into account the results, at present data do not support the working model in Figure 8: p53 pathway is proposed to be a key signaling, but it has not been identified by GO enrichment and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis, why? - How autophagy is related to ZBTB38? Authors should check for autophagic flux by WB or ICC to verify that autophagy is impaired upon ZBTB38 downregulation. In S3 Table. (Top 20 differentially expressed genes associated with autophagy), there are genes that can have opposite effects on autophagy: for example, RB1CC1 (FIP200), ATG2 and ATM positively regulate autophagy induction whereas PIK3CA and PIK3C2A mediate the activation of AKT-mTORC1 cascade that inhibits autophagy through ULK1 (Laplante et al., 2012). Moreover, lose of PTEN, a phosphates that inhibits growth and proliferation signals of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) by dephosphorylating phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (Crino, 2016), should promote the AKT-MTORC1 activation. Thus, this point is unclear and needs further investigations to be clarified; I suggest checking AKT-mTORC1 activation state by WB. - They should provide results for ROS increase and apoptosis activation upon ZBTB38 silencing. - Figure legends are not complete or are not clear enough to read. Minor points: There are some typing errors. 1 Laplante M, Sabatini DM. mTOR signaling in growth control and disease. Cell 2012; 149: 274–93. 2 Crino PB. The mTOR signalling cascade: Paving new roads to cure neurological disease. Nat Rev Neurol 2016; 12: 379–392.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
At this point, the results are not enough robust to support the conclusions.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Transcriptome profiling reveals the role of ZBTB38 knock-down in human neuroblastoma (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6352v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 28, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript is well prepared, and data presentation is pretty clear.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The study is well organized, and experiment design is reasonable.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled.
Comments for the author
In this paper the authors aim to demonstrate the possible role of a zinc finger protein ZBTB38 in neuroblastoma (NB). Based on the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y model, high throughput RNA sequencing was performed to compare the differential gene expression between the control and ZBTB38 knockdown cell lines. The data revealed a major transcriptional activation role of ZBTB38, with 83.5% down-regulated out of the 2,438 identified differentially expressed genes. Functional annotation revealed the involvement of the neurotrophin TRK receptor related signaling pathway, including PI3K/Akt and MAPK signaling pathway, several other well-known genes like PTEN and p53, and autophagy-related genes PIK3C2A and RB1CC1, providing a pilot investigation about the function role of ZBTB38 in neuroblastoma development and clue for targeted therapy. The study is well organized, data presentation is pretty clear, and results are very interesting. 1. The NGS sequencing data should be submitted and deposited to public data base for easy accessibility; 2. For Figure 1B-E, a P value should be calculated and provided to support their claim of differential expression; 3. For functional annotation of the differentially expressed gene, the author may want to try GSEA analysis module, which will generate a more informative enrichment plot with enrich score and p value, and a heatmap for the enriched gene list, compared to the relative simple bar graph of the genes in each pathway presented here. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Transcriptome profiling reveals the role of ZBTB38 knock-down in human neuroblastoma (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6352v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 25, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
