Review History for Intrauterine growth and the maturation process of adrenal function [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Intrauterine growth and the maturation process of adrenal function To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 27th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 10th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on December 3rd, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 30th, 2018.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Daniela Foti
·
Dec 30, 2018
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have addressed, in details, all the concerns raised by the reviewers. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Onno Meijer ·
Dec 17, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments - I found it clear.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I am not a specialist on the type of analysis performed here. Given the weight that is given in the literature to early life regulation of the HPA axis this is very interesting data in a carefully considered naturalistic setup.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results are discussed in a careful and conservative manner. I have to refer to other reviewers for judgement of the statistical analysis
Cite this review as
Meijer O ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Intrauterine growth and the maturation process of adrenal function (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6368v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 3, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Daniela Foti
·
Oct 10, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Methods and Statistical analysis should be improved, as well as evidence, background and rationale of the study.
label_author_2
Onno Meijer ·
Oct 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In general fine - a number of small issues around the raw data: In the raw data there is an unrealistic number of digits in some measurements that go far beyond the actual accuracy of the measurement. In the raw data the units of the measurements are not given. In the raw data, the column steroid use is present twice and two small textual issues: l.69 What is meant with ‘the remote period’? l.177: ‘recent studies’ refers to two papers that are >20 years old
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Descriptive, cross sections, shortcomings are discussed properly.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This manuscript describes the salivary cortisol levels in newborn infants, as a function of postnatal age (< 5d; > 14 d), and a number of aspects during pregnancy and first days of life, focussing on complications. The main findings are a decrease in cortisol levels over time, and quite strong interactions between age and maternal high blood pressure/ intrauterine growth retardation / C-section. In these three conditions cortisol is higher shortly after birth, and much lower after the age of two weeks. The authors suggest that these changes indicate reprogramming of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis, and that this may be relevant for disease vulnerability in later life. The manuscript represents a further analysis of earlier reported studies. It is purely descriptive but seems well-controled (this reviewer is not a methodological specialist in this area). And: the research question is in fact a very interesting one, and bears relevance beyond the acute setting of the obstetrics ward. There is a substantial research community focusing on HPA axis changes in relation to adult stress (PTSD) and on ‘early life stress’ in relation to behavioural changes. The initially higher cortisol levels, developing towards lower levels may well bear relevance to those fields. I have only very minor comments on the manuscript as is. It struck me that glucocorticoid therapy (outside the exclusion period of one week earlier) has no significant impact by itself. Can the authors discuss this? It would also be of interest to know what the effects of GCs would be at shorter notice (apparently a week suffices for the HPA axis to normalize, but how fast does this happen?). But probably these children were excluded beforehand, and no measurements are available. l.69 What is meant with ‘the remote period’? l.177: ‘recent studies’ refers to two papers that are >20 years old Cite this review as
Meijer O ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Intrauterine growth and the maturation process of adrenal function (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6368v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 8, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article failed to meet in standards in providing enough evidence, rationale and background for both the study rationale and interpreration of the results. Overall the article flow was hard to follow
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research question needed to be reworded for clarity (i.e. maternal stress, see comments below) and it wasn't clear how it filled a gap nor was substantively different from their previously published work Methods and Statistical Analysis needed more detail
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Impact and novelty of data weren't properly discussed and test statistics were missing for all presented data
Comments for the author
Title 1)Doesn’t seem IV is antenatal stress, but rather prenatal clinical conditions- see comment 15 as well 2)Association is also likely a more accurate term than Influence. Abstract 3)In Intro, permanently make be too strong of a word as the HPA system is plastic, perhaps long-term consequences or alters may be more accurate terms 4)In Aims, Would not use the word dependence, but rather association 5)In Methods, would be useful to know when the infant cort levels were collected since results were analyzed overtime and that is a strength of this study 6)The relationship in the Results is not clear 7)The conclusion is concise and clear Introduction 8)Should be a space between the last word preceding a citation 9)Lines 47 and 48 should be clear if referring to maternal or fetal cortisol/glucocorticoid levels 10)There should be a brief discussion of the consequences of IUGR and preterm labor to strengthen the impact of the current study 11)More rationale is need at the beginning of the second paragraph to understand why looking at the temporal changes in adrenal function are needed (lines 61-63). 12)Add the word exposure in line 63 before pathological and in line 67 before maternal 13)Line 64, it is unclear what authors mean by sporadic observations- perhaps cross-sectional is a better term? 14)Not clear what remote period refers to in line 69. 15)More citations are needed to demonstrate that “several studies have shown associations between perinatal stress and attenuated adrenal function” on lines 68-69. Only one study is cited and more evidence is needed. Also, It is unclear if maternal stress is the correct word to use here (and throughout the manuscript), as the authors are not referring to psychological stress, but rather than physiological stress or maternal health conditions. This should be made clear. 16)The last point on lines 70-74 is not clear. The conclusion of a rapid postnatal decline in cortisol levels does not seem to be supported by the first half of the sentence. Instead, it would be more helpful for the authors to speculate on why this juxtaposition may occur in prenatal vs. postnatal cortisol in offspring with evidence from the literature. 17)Again, the aim that the changes in postnatal cort will change in response to antenatal stressors, does not seem to be the correct term to orient readers the tested research questions. 18)Overall a stronger case needs to be made to look at the interactions with postnatal age and maternal clinical outcomes on infant (see comment 11) Material and Methods 19)Line 86, the cortisol levels are referred to as independent variables when in fact they are the outcome, thus dependent variables. Also diurnal rhythms aren’t addressed here. 20)It is unclear what is meant by lines 87-91 and how they related to the current study. It is odd to include an exploratory analysis in a Methods section. How did this work inform the current study? 21)Under study population, if the recruitment, sample collection (amount) and cort assay have been reported previously then that needs to be clearly cited. And sample size for this cohort needs to be included here. 22)The times, means ± sd of the ages of saliva collection for the infants should be included in the Methods 23)Was only one saliva sample collected? This seems not in concert with the above statement from the exploratory analysis that suggests a fetal-type diurnal pattern (again unclear what this means and is especially curious because much other work suggests infants don’t develop a diurnal cort pattern right away) 24)Why was postnatal age grouped and not used as a continuous variable? 25)The description of how clinical variables were operationalized needs to be clearer. It seems each clinical variable was tested along with postnatal age on infant cortisol as a multiple comparison correction was used? Is this correct? What stats were used? Was a Two Way ANOVA- clinical dichotomous outcome x postnatal age category -on cortisol levels or change in cortisol levels performed? The Statistical analysis section needs much clarification. Results 26)Table 1 does not include a full demographic table. Were any demographics considered as covariates like maternal age and/or BMI? Also, it isn’t clear if the numbers refer to percentages or whole numbers and where the comparison numbers are located? 27)The large postnatal range seems to be an issue, especially if postnatal cortisol decreases quickly as suggested and samples were collected within a week apart. 28)The main effects should not be mentioned or reported here as they were previously. These should be included in the introduction and/or discussion where a stronger case needs to be made for this study. 29)Both the tables and text are missing test statistics for the statistical test run (ie, F-value, df, etc). 30)The description of the interactions were unclear, again with the use of the word dependence. 31)Table 2 should report the non-transformed means for cortisol for comparison with other studies, especially since Figure 1 (or Table 3?) has the ln transformed means and comparisons and currently is just a replica of Figure 2 in graph form- thus repeating data. Discussion 32)Begin the Discussion with a summary of results from the current study, not previous work. Though authors can go on to describe how these fit together. The current summer is still confusing as mentioned in the Abstract presentation of the results above. 33)The importance of IUGR is included here, but would also be useful in the Introduction 34)The second paragraph in the Discussion is nicely written, though overall the Discussion is hard to follow. For example, facts presented in line 173 and 175/176 seem unrelated and their inclusion isn’t clear nor is the relevance to the current study clear. 35)The third paragraph does not include any references nor refer how this work compares with other studies Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Intrauterine growth and the maturation process of adrenal function (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6368v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 27, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
