Review History for The origin of Oxalis corniculata L. [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The origin of Oxalis corniculata L. To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 30th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 6th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 2nd, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 3rd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Michael Wink
·
Jan 3, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors Many thanks for your revision. Good news, your ms can now be accepted. Kind regards Michael Wink Academic Editor # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Patricia Gandini, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 2, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Michael Wink
·
Dec 6, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors Your ms has been well received with the overall opinion being for a minor revision. Regards, Michael Wink Academic Editor
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 20, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The ms. by Groom et al. describes the occurrences of Oxalis corniculata in space and time. I regard this as a very interesting contribution to the question on the origin of this taxon. I agree with the authors that the question cannot be finally solved (as theoretically all scientific questions). Overall, a refreshing study, relevant for the evaluation of neophytes, in this case worldwide. The evidence they provide is relatively strong. I like the combination of different approaches and the old illustrations. Still, the phylogenetic data by Vaio where the American natives O. dillenii and stricta also group together with O. corniculata may be a counter-argument. By just looking at the tree an American origin seems more likely. Of course, long-distance dispersal may also have happened before the mrca of Oxalis corniculata from America to Asia. Perhaps the authors should discuss the available phylogenetic data in more detail. Besides the infraspecific problems of O.c., the inclusion of all putative related species in the phylogenetic study by Vaio should be discussed. A different approach is worth to be mentioned: that a population genetic approach may reveal the origin based on the assumption that the highest genetic diversity represents source areas. Especially for neophytes this makes sense. It has been nicely shown for Oxalis pes-caprae in the Mediterranean with a South African origin. Discuss the use of seed morphology to distinguish O. species (corniculata from relatives). Best illustrate it with photos. This would strengthen the arguments. I found some more (secondary) literature: -Bauhin cites O.c. for Heidelberg around 1600 (publication?). -Graebner 1914 for Basel (Synop. Mitteleur. Flora) -Gmelin 1806 (flora badensis) also mentioned it. After these minor revisions the ms. should be fine for PeerJ. Minor points: l. 94, 123, 266, 304 O. => write out Oxalis (at begin of sent.) l. 95 use => used l. 137 Earlier? Than… l. 139 one taxon l. 145 flowers of this illustration are in bud and are of little diagnostic use. Another herbal BOOK? from circa
Experimental design
label_ed_1
see Basic reporting
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
see Basic reporting
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
see Basic reporting Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "The origin of Oxalis corniculata L. (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6384v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Ben-Erik Van Wyk ·
Dec 6, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comment, except for a suggestion: There are, in addition to taro, several plant species that currently have wide (cosmopolitan or pantropical) distributions and it may be interesting to refer to some of them (and especially to literature on their historical biogeography, if anything is available). These include Lagenaria siceraria (African origin, but earliest archaeological evidence in Mexico?; China?); Zea mais, Capsicum frutescens, Capsicum chinensis, Sesamum indicum, Pteridium aquilinum, Momordica charantia, Dysphania ambrosioides and Carthamus tinctorius. It appears to be a general problem to determine the origins of plants that are associated with agriculture and human migrations? How did others try to solve the problem?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment, except for a suggestion: Genetic diversity is barely mentioned, yet this may provide an important additional avenue of research. If, for example, all European, African and American collections of Oxalis corniculatus are genetically similar or identical, while the Asian ones are genetically diverse, then the main findings of this paper can be further verified and supported.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment, except for the suggestion of the potential value of genetic studies as a future direction.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The paper is well conceived and interesting to read, with no obvious errors of fact and/or logic. There are some very minor errors that can be corrected, perhaps during copy-editing (lines 93, 137, 167, 281, 302, 379 and 441). Cite this review as
Van Wyk B ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "The origin of Oxalis corniculata L. (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6384v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 30, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
