Review History for No sex-biased dispersal in a primate with an uncommon social system—cooperative polyandry [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History No sex-biased dispersal in a primate with an uncommon social system—cooperative polyandry To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 23rd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 1st, 2014. The first revision was submitted on October 4th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 7th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Donald Kramer
·
Oct 7, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I find this manuscript now acceptable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 4, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Donald Kramer
·
Oct 1, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Based on three sets of previous reviews included with the submitted manuscript and my own reading, I find the manuscript acceptable for publication in PeerJ with minor revisions. The reviews appeared to be thorough and competent, reviewers agreed that the paper should be published, despite negative results and small sample sizes, and the authors appear to have addressed the concerns expressed. While I have an adequate background in mating systems and dispersal, I am not capable of judging the genetic tests, and have relied on the reviewers and authors for the validity of this aspect of the study. Sincerely, Donald L. Kramer Notes and suggestions from the editor L52. ‘most all’ is not clear. Did you intend to use only one of these words or ‘almost all’? L213,216, 226 citations to Table 1 presumably should be Table 2. Check the ms to be certain that all references to figures and tables are correct. L267-268. Sentence needs to be rewritten because reference of ‘it’ is unclear. Do you mean ‘However, dispersal by both sexes may imply fitness costs that arise …’? L293, 379 Italics missing for species names (check to be sure others were not missed) L320, 360 Journal article titles should not have all words capitalized (check to be sure others were not missed) Table 1. SI unit for grams is g. Footnote is ambiguous. It could imply that neither museum specimens nor group compositions were available. Perhaps a clearer statement would be ‘Because individuals were museum specimens, group compositions were not available; however, samples were known to have been collected from multiple groups and not to have included any complete groups.’
Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 23, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
