Review History for Quality-of-life among Syrian refugees residing outside camps in Jordan relative to Jordanians and other countries [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Quality-of-life among Syrian refugees residing outside camps in Jordan relative to Jordanians and other countries To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 2nd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 31st, 2018. The first revision was submitted on December 17th, 2018 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 15th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Charlie Zhang
·
Jan 15, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks again for your contribution to PeerJ. We look forward to receiving your high quality work in the future.
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 24, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Professional article
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Research question is clear
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Novel and valid results
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Well drafted Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Quality-of-life among Syrian refugees residing outside camps in Jordan relative to Jordanians and other countries (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6454v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 17, 2018
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Charlie Zhang
·
Oct 31, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I recommend the authors revise the manuscript by including detailed explanations of the data and variables being used in this research (e.g., age and gender makeups of the sample data) and include discussions about the contributions and limitations of this research.
label_author_2
Tala Alrousan ·
Oct 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Very important topic and potentially impactful research. Research question well defined,relevant & meaningful. It is stated how research fills an identified knowledge gap. Experimental design issue with comparing means in other countries. I think this should not be done and the authors should stick to presenting the rich data they already have form Jordan. •A few typos found and corrections are needed. Highlighted areas that need word smithing and have grammatical issues. Please spell out WHOQOL-BREF in the abstract and all abbreviations at first mention in the text and abstract. •Introduction: Suggest changing sentence in line 80 to: “and the majority of the remaining two millions are registered in Lebanon and Jordan.” •Latest percentages from UNHCR Jordan show that more than 9% (Perhaps closer to 15%) reside in camps. Fix and include citation here. Also the 650,000 number is underestimated and numbers form the ministry of interior should be used (closer to 1 million refugees) •3 camps instead of two please check the literature. I believe there is a Dubai-sponsored camp or something. •Line 85: suggest removing politically sensitive words such as “illegally”. One could debate that. •Line 88: Again spell out QOL at first mention in the text. Abstract is not part of the manuscript. •Include citation for QOL after end of sentence; line 91 •Line 93: The literature •Line 126: Replace targeted with recruited •Line 127: add a “total” before sample •Line 142: spell out ASES •Define criteria for ASES •Lines 150, 151: Be very explicit in explaining the criteria for defining LSES •Line 170: Too much wording. I suggest removing whole paragraph and briefly saying that it was validated with an included citation •Line 174: What do you mean a pilot study was performed? What exact tool did you use to measure internal consistency? Did it measure within-subject variability or between-subject variability? Is the 0.7 a Cronbach’s alpha? If so, state that clearly. •Lines 190&191. This is very low and there should be an explanation for that in the limitations section.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
•Mention confounders you adjusted for in the multivariate regression model. Did you adjust for age? Confounders should be mentioned in this section not tin the results only. The statistical analysis section should be better explained to include variables used in the multiple regression model, adjustments made and comparison of means in other countries and refugee camps does not sound right. Comparing means is meaningless since context is different in each country and setting. How were the means in other studies obtained exactly? Through manuscripts review? Explicitly describe that. What was the n size per mean in each of these papers? An additional Table could be useful here stating source of information, authors, sample size, mean, year published..etc. I think comparing means is a weakness of this study and should not be part of the main findings but rather inserted in the discussion and throughout the general theme but does not sound right scientifically to compare means like this. If this was a systematic review paper this could be a different scenario and should be done vigorously well to show scientific rigor in presenting such data. •Table 1: There should be an explanation in limitations why the majority of Jordanians recruited were females. Describe why unemployment rate in this sample especially among Jordanians is very high and how it relates to the national unemployment rate. For monthly income in table: include actual amount per category between brackets in JODs or US Dollars. What does presence of disease mean? Chronic condition or what? A common cold could be considered a disease at time of questionnaire administration. •Social relationships: You mentioned earlier that the N size was small for this so how could you make such conclusions> Suggest minimizing generalizing like this with a small sample size. •Line 253: again what diseases? You mean number of diseases? Or adjusting for having a disease or not? •Table 4: what do you mean population as a variable here? Stratify by population and show data. •Line 330: remove the word funding and use finances instead. •Limitations section: what do you mean sample size was more than 200 so it is a good study? Reword. There is no set number for an ideal sample size. Remember this is a limitations section not a self-praising one. Again avoid charged terms such as “illegally”, you can say unregistered versus registered. I suggest removing the whole comparison with other countries and focus on the data in your paper that you collected and presenting it better in additional tables. You already have a lot of data. You can reference other papers in the discussion to try to draw comparisons but comparing non-camp to camp in other countries, lacking rigor in doing so is a major weakness. In the limitations you should mention why you had less answers for certain questions, why more females…etc. This is all faulty recruitment and study design that should be mentioned and accounted for.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled. Stratify by population and present Table 4 in a better way. Remove comparisons with other countries. Suggest removing figures A & B
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
More citations and references should be included throughout the manuscript. Revise for typos and language Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Alrousan T ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Quality-of-life among Syrian refugees residing outside camps in Jordan relative to Jordanians and other countries (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6454v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Oct 22, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
a. it is clear with professional English used throughout. b. Introduction and background show context but did not mention the other refugees affected by the Syrian crises such Palestine refugees who were registered in Syria since 1948 and fled Syria to Jordan following the crises. According to UNRWA statistics a total number of 17,000 Palestine Refugee from Syria fled to Jordan as a result of the crises and are taken care by UNRWA. c. Figures, tables and graphs are relevant.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
a. The study is novel in assessing QOL among Syrian refugees in Jordan and clarifies the impact of crises and refugee status on QOL. b. The data are statistically sound.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
a. The research question is relevant, meaningful and identified knowledge gap. b. The study is technically sound and ethically supported.
Comments for the author
The study could have included other refugees affected by the Syria crises such the Palestine refugees who fled to Jordan which will widen scope of the study and add to its strength. 5. Conclusions are well stated and inked to research question; however it should recommend and open the window for new research with enough samples from all population affected by the Syria crises namely Syrian refugees, Palestine Refugees registered originally in Syria but fled to Jordan as a result of the crises, Palestine refugees registered in Jordan since 1948(total 2.3 million by Dec2017 as per UNRWA records in Jordan Field Office), Low socioeconomic status Jordanian, Average socioeconomic status Jordanian. Attached is copy of the stud and annual report of health Department/UNRWA 2017. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Quality-of-life among Syrian refugees residing outside camps in Jordan relative to Jordanians and other countries (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6454v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 2, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
