Review History for Two membrane-bound transcription factors regulate expression of various type-IV-pili surface structures in Sulfolobus acidocaldarius [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Two membrane-bound transcription factors regulate expression of various type-IV-pili surface structures in Sulfolobus acidocaldarius To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 9th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 12th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 10th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 16th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Craig Moyer
·
Jan 16, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Reviewer's comment were adequately addressed. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Valeria Souza, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 10, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Craig Moyer
·
Dec 12, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I concur with the many suggested corrections to the manuscript by both reviewers. Please attend to these as best you can. Sincerely, --Craig Moyer
label_author_1
Haruyuki Atomi ·
Dec 6, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
See general comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
See general comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
See general comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This study deals with two transcriptional regulators, ArnR and ArnR1 from the thermoacidophilic archaeon Sulfolobus acidocaldarius. They have been known to be involved in the transcriptional regulation of the archaellum operon by targeting the promoter of flaB that encodes the archaellum filament protein. ArnR and ArnR1 are capable of forming oligomers and are phosphorylated by the Ser/Thr kinase ArnC. Apart from binding to pflaB, ArnR but not ArnR1 bound to promoter sequences of aapF and upsX, which encode components of the adhesive (aap) and UV inducible pili (ups), demonstrating a regulatory connection between different surface appendages of S. acidocaldarius. The information provided is new, especially the fact that ArnR may be involved in the regulation of other surface appendages. The manuscript however needs some editing. In particular, the discussion should be trimmed and refined/clarified for the general reader. Perhaps a figure of the regulation network would make it much easier to understand. The conclusion section is not necessary unless this is the format of the journal. A list of specific comments, both major and minor is shown below. 2nd affiliation needs an address. Spemann Graduate School of Biology and Medicine (SGBM) However, sigma factors are absent from archaea raising the question of how gene transcription is regulated. This sentence seems strange. If Archaea were to use bacterial transcriptional machinery, the absence of sigma factors would be intriguing, but this is not the case. I do not think the authors have to refer to the absence of sigma factors in order to raise the question as to how gene transcription is regulated. While ArnR is conserved in Sulfolobales and Desulfurococcales, the ArnR paralog ArnR1 is exclusively found in S. acidocaldarius (Lassak et al., 2013). Is the distribution still the case taking into account the dramatic increase in genome sequences in recent years? I ask this as the citation is from five years ago. Lines 95 and 101: Organisms in italic or is this the journal style for subtitles? Line 147: DNA in italic? Line 181: This was surprising. N-terminal His10-tag under control of an arabinose inducible promoter. How is the protein integrated into the membrane? Is there not a signal sequence at the N-terminus? A comment would help. Related to this, although archaeal membrane proteins such as SecYEG have been known to assemble in bacterial membranes, is it not worth noting? Is the insertion machinery analogous between archaea and bacteria? Is the majority of protein localized in the membrane fraction? Some comments would help. Change y32 to gamma (greek letter)32 Description of Figure 3 text lines 205-214: Why do the authors not mention the self phosphorylation of ArnD? Understanding the meaning of the bands takes a while and it would be helpful if this were written here. Line 237: the first p in roman? Are paapF and pupsX designated somewhere? Are there any comments or discussion on the quite large Kd values? Line 262: mutant in italic? since neither ArnR nor ArnR1 bound to the promoter sequence of the non-T4P related gene saci_2122 (encodes a putative sugar binding protein) it is tempting to speculate that rather the length of the DNA fragment and/or distance to core promoter elements such as the BRE, TATA-box and/or transcription start site are important for ArnR and ArnR1 function in regulating T4P surface structures of S. acidocaldarius. The logic is hard to understand here, please clarify. Line 324: jannaschii Line 325: M. maripaludis Line 331: Is this e.g.? Line 338: S. acidocaldariusis Line 345: S. acidocaldarius in italic Line 364: What exactly tempts the authors to speculate that phosphorylation of ArnR and ArnR1 defines their specificity to different T4P promoter sequences? Line 372: ArnR/1? Cite this review as
Atomi H ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Two membrane-bound transcription factors regulate expression of various type-IV-pili surface structures in Sulfolobus acidocaldarius (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6459v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Brady Lee ·
Dec 11, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
There were various inconsistencies throughout article that should be corrected prior to publication: Line 70 – Spell out HAMP Line 110 – Should list components of PBST Line 149 – 16,000 instead of 16.000 rpm Line 166 – “and” does not need to be italicized Line 170 – aapf should be aapF Line 171 – change “log2-folg” to “log2-fold” Results Figure 2 caption; second line - list separately as ArnR/ArnR1 for consistency Lines 193 – 214 – The beginning of this paragraph contains a lot of information that seems like it would fit better in the Discussion section. Figure 4 caption, fourth line – change pFlaB41 to pflaB41 Lines 237/238 – change paapF to paapF to stay consistent with italization between paapF and pupsX Line 246 – change Arnr1 to ArnR1 Figure 6 caption, second line – italicize adh Figure 6 caption, last line – delta symbol needs to be added instead of DarnR and darnR1. Line 293 - list separately as ArnR/ArnR1 for consistency Line 308 – add bp after 40 Line 345 – italicize S. acidocaldarius Line 351 – change Arnr1 to ArnR1 Line 352 – remove “by on” replace maybe with “at” Line 372 – change Arnr1 to ArnR1 Line 386 – change hosphorylation to phosphorylation
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I think that the experimental design for the experiment were adequate, but a few sections in the Materials and Methods section need work. First, the phosphorylation studies were not even mentioned in the Materials and Methods. This should be added prior to publication of the article. This would also help in understanding Figures 3B and 3C which took a while to wade through because of the lack of information in M & M. Obviously not enough information to replicate this specific set of experiments. The second issue was related to the qRT-PCR section in the M & M: Lines 159 – 172 – qRT-PCR Section of Methods is confusing. On lines 165 and 166 the authors indicate they are targeting flab and arnR/arnR1, while in lines 169 and 170 they talk about normalization of expression of aapf and upsX. Since data was only included for aapf and upsX, I can assume that lines 165 and 166 should be corrected. They also listed Table S2 as listing primers; however, primers are listed in Table S3. Listing of primers in Table S3 is also not consistent. upsX primers are listed as qPCR primers, while the aapF and adh are listed as qRT-PCR primers. Italics are also used inconsistently in table. Please re-write section so that it is consistent with research task performed. Would also be worthwhile to state why adh was used as housekeeping gene.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The research was impactful and novel, showing that ArnR and ArnR are part of the regulatory network of S. acidocaldarius for activation of motility. Likewise, the work showed that there was regulation of other motility and surface structures. The data presented is robust and the raw data and statistical analysis was sound and well controlled. The conclusions of the research are succinctly stated and linked to the original question discussed in the introduction.
Cite this review as
Lee B ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Two membrane-bound transcription factors regulate expression of various type-IV-pili surface structures in Sulfolobus acidocaldarius (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6459v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 9, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
