Review History for Are improper kinetic models hampering drug development? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Are improper kinetic models hampering drug development? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 12th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 23rd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on October 12th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 13th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Paul Tulkens
·
Oct 13, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I guess you have satisfactorily answered the main criticisms of the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 12, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Paul Tulkens
·
Sep 23, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As you will see, we got divergent opinions from the reviewers. In addition, I was informed by the Editorial Office that the present submission could actually have been a re-submission of a paper that was originally rejected. If such is the case, when responding to the reviewers reports, please also provide a detailed answer to the critiques raised against this first submission and explain how the present submission differs from it.
label_author_1
Bruno Imbimbo ·
Sep 22, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript proposes new empirical equations to interpret complex enzyme inhibition data. The approach was applied to previously published beta-amyloid concentration-response data from HeLa cells treated with DAPT, a gamma-secretase inhibitor. The Author concluded that the new empirical equation led to a better description of the experimental data. He claimed that the improper fitting of complex enzyme inhibition data may led to wrong development of drugs.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The manuscript describes, in an elegant way, the derivation of the new empirical equations for complex drug-enzyme interaction data starting from traditional enzymatic models (competitive, non-competitive, mixed). The new empirical equations were applied to cell-based beta-amyloid production data described in a previous paper (Svedruzic et al, PLOS One 2013).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Author should note that data he used for testing the new empirical equations refers to the beta-amyloid1-40 peptide and not to the beta-amyloid1-42 peptide, the molecular species considered more neurotoxic and relevant for Alzheimer’s disease pathogenesis. Thus, the parameters derived by calculations may have limited pharmacological relevance. Author should also note that different lines of Figure 2 refers to different concentrations of the C99 substrate of gamma-secretase (C-terminal fraction of amyloid precursor protein or CTF-beta), not to beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
While the rationale and mathematical derivation of the new empirical equations are well and elegantly described, I do not believe that the resulting data fitting was dramatically different from those presented in the original PLOS One paper. Most importantly, it should be pointed out that DAPT never entered studies in humans and this was for toxicity reasons mainly linked to lack of selectivity (interaction with Notch receptors, etc.). After the negative results of clinical trials with semagacestat (Doody RS et al. N Engl J Med 2013; 369: 341-350) and avagacestat (Coric V et al. Arch Neurol 2012; 69: 1430-1440), in which Alzheimer patients receiving the drugs declined cognitively more rapidly than those assigned to placebo, the gamma-secretase inhibitors have been abandoned as anti-Alzheimer drugs. Biochemically, the detrimental effects of gamma-secretase inhibitors on cognitive function have been ascribed to accumulation of C99, the substrate of the enzyme (Mitani Y et al. The Journal of Neuroscience 2012; 32: 2037–2050). So, the failure of DAPT and of other gamma-secretase inhibitors in Alzheimer’s disease cannot be ascribed, as suggested by the Author, to wrong estimation of the IC50 on the production of beta-amyloid1-40, but rather to a lack of selectivity (inhibition of Notch, N-cadherin, or EphA4) and on the intrinsic mechanism of action (accumulation of the gamma-secretase substrate C99 that, at high non-physiological concentrations, has amnesic activity). Thus, I believe that idea of the Author that “improper kinetic models hampered the development of DAPT or other clinical candidates in Alzheimer’s disease” is an overstated claim. Cite this review as
Imbimbo BP ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Are improper kinetic models hampering drug development? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.649v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Sep 23, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript submitted by the Ryan Walsh is very relevant in the current context of enzyme inhibition kinetics model for designing of new drug candidates for management/cure of various diseases. The manuscript will target a specific audience in the field of enzymology and will be a good reference document for researchers starting their enzymatic research work or building upon their current bio-catalytic work. References are appropriate and have been cited at apt places. I believe that this manuscript should be published with some minor edits as suggested below. 1.Better to replace ‘ic50’ by ‘IC50’. 2.To include one para for assay of <U+03B3>–secretase with respect to predicted concentration of APP in vivo state. 3.To compare current analysis (Fig. 2) with classical IC50 and AC50 (that concentration of DAPT increases 50% <U+03B3>–secretase activity at lower concentration range as compared to higher concentration range state, where determined IC50). 4.A thorough proof reading of manuscript will be required to eliminate typos (e.g. Figure 3. . Schematic) and grammatical mistakes to improve the quality of manuscript. 5.There are also some other mixed and uncompetitive types of inhibition (pure and partial), which would be discussed in this ms with references. 6.Check list of abbreviations that fulfill the criteria of minimum 3 times cited in the text. 7.Make sure that format and style should be according to the journal style. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Are improper kinetic models hampering drug development? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.649v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 12, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
