Review History for Transcriptional profiling in the livers of rats after hypobaric hypoxia exposure [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Transcriptional profiling in the livers of rats after hypobaric hypoxia exposure To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 26th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 21st, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 15th, 2019 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 22nd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Minjun Chen
·
Jan 22, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you to contribute to this interesting manuscript to PeerJ and we are happy to work with to publish this work. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Elena Papaleo, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 21, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No further comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No further comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No further comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Authors have addressed my concerns. No further comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Transcriptional profiling in the livers of rats after hypobaric hypoxia exposure (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6499v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 15, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Minjun Chen
·
Nov 21, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please respond to all of the reviewer's comments
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 16, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I have two questions for the authors regarding the experimental design of the current manuscript: 1) It wasn’t clear what were the conditions for the experimental groups, e.g. were they submitted to simulated altitude? What was the altitude tested? Any particular devices were used? Also, what are the genders of the rats used? Could there be gender difference? 2) It wasn’t clear to me how was the 2-week time point chosen. This is one of my major concern of the manuscript. Was any shorter period of hypobaric exposure tested? In my humble opinion acute effect should be measured at much shorter time points, such as 24-72 h. Would the authors explain their rational in choosing the 2-week time point? I would also like to see if the results would be different for a shorter period such as 48h.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Have the authors validated the results of the RNA-Seq?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In the manuscript "Transcriptional profiling in the livers of rats after hypobaric hypoxia exposure", the authors explored the gene expression in the livers of rats after 2 weeks or 4 weeks of hypobaric hypoxia exposure. In addition to my questions above, there are a few other things I would like to ask the authors: 1) In figure 6, it is interesting to see that all the pathways selected were enriched only in the first cluster, but no one showed up in the other two clusters. I am curious if any other pathways showed up in the other two clusters in this pathway analysis? 2) Since one of the major function of liver is metabolism, I am curious if the signal pathways/genes involved in metabolism are changed. The authors mentioned very briefly that the galactose metabolism pathway was enriched, but it seems no other information was provided or discussed. 3) Also, did the authors explore, or have plan to examine, the gene expression pattern in other organs under similar conditions? 4) There is a paper published on Physiol Genomics in 2010 titled “gene expression of the liver in response to chronic hypoxia” by Baze et al. (PMID 20103700), would the authors cite and discuss that paper? 5) Most of the figure legends are unreadable in the manuscript. Please correct them. 6) In the Abstract, the third sentence “The liver must physiologically and ….” and the fourth sentence “Since the liver is the largest metabolic organ…” should switch order. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Transcriptional profiling in the livers of rats after hypobaric hypoxia exposure (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6499v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
1.In introduction, the language is not cohesive. Make sure to use connective words in between sentences to make introduction easier to read. 2.In introduction, a sentence starting at line 60 is very long. It fails to get the message across. I suggest authors break down that sentence into few small sentences to get the message across
Experimental design
label_ed_3
1.In materials and method section, authors indicate that “the liver tissue was snap-frozen…”(line 92). What part of the liver was utilized for this study? Indicate if similar sections of the liver was isolated and utilized consistently throughout the study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
1.In introduction (line 57), authors suggest that energy metabolism of heart and skeletal muscle is altered. Based on the results of energy metabolism changes in liver, would there be extrapolation for anticipated changes (or literature evidence) in heart and skeletal muscle? Suggest include that in discussion. 2.One of the major finding for this study is that immune-related pathways play a key role in hypobaric hypoxia exposure. It would have been ideal to include certain functional end points in the study to have the evidence of translation of gene expression to functional end points. However, can authors suggest the evidence of the functional end points in literature in discussion to support major finding?
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Transcriptional profiling in the livers of rats after hypobaric hypoxia exposure (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6499v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 26, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
