Review History for Mitochondrial complex activity in permeabilised cells of chronic fatigue syndrome patients using two cell types [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Mitochondrial complex activity in permeabilised cells of chronic fatigue syndrome patients using two cell types To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 18th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 6th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 22nd, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 22nd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Jan 22, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Tomas and colleagues: Thanks for revising your manuscript based on the concerns raised by the two reviewers. I now believe that your manuscript is suitable for publication. Congratulations! I look forward to seeing this work in print, and I anticipate it being an important resource for communities studying chronic fatigue syndrome and mitochondrial function. Thanks again for choosing PeerJ to publish such important work. Best, -joe # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 22, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Dec 6, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Tomas and colleagues: Thanks for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. I have now received two independent reviews of your work, and as you will see, both are very favorable. Well done! Nonetheless, both reviewers raised some relatively minor concerns about the research, and areas where the manuscript can be improved. I agree with the reviewers, and thus feel that their concerns should be adequately addressed before moving forward. Therefore, I am recommending that you revise your manuscript accordingly, taking into account all of the issues raised by the reviewers. I do believe that your manuscript will be ready for publication once these issues are addressed. Good luck with your revision, -joe
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 8, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is generally sound. There are however several typos in the document which need to be corrected. 112missing word: Diagnostic 147 Possible typo EGTA 154Typo injectizon 249Typo extra work ‘for’ 104 Workd- work References are OK. One is a PhD thesis reference 30
Experimental design
label_ed_1
120General comment: No information regarding suppliers of materials 126How was differentiation of myoblast to myotubes established? 132 Were the wells pre-coated with poly-d-lysine? This may impact cell survival 205In table 1, the authors state that glutamine was injected however the figure 4 states glutamate. The authors must confirm which compound was used. I wonder whether the title of the paper is a true reflection of the data?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The permeabilised myoblast expt failed to work likely due to insufficient cell/mitochondria. Not too much should be read into the myoblast data. 239 Successful recordings of the effect of glutamate and malate, and TMPD and ascorbate were made in control and CFS myotubes Glutamate does not appear to work in myoblasts (Fig3A). is this statement correct? Glutamate and Glutamine are mixed up. The authors need to make sure the correct word is used. 205In table 1, the authors state that glutamine was injected however the figure 4 states glutamate. The authors must confirm which compound was used. Did the myoblasts and PBMC used the same glutamine/glutamate substrate
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Although on the small side this is a useful study carried out using similar approaches to previous work by the group on PBMCs. The limitations of myoblasts in this type of approach are mentioned and the authors should not over interpret the data based on the myoblasts. The PBMC data is solid showing no difference between patients and controls with respect to mitochondrial complex activity One thing to consider for future expts is the mitochondrial burden of pen and strep in conjunction with antifungal amphotericin B. Pen and strep reduces OCR in human fibroblasts. It would be worth investigating how these anitbiotics and fungicides affect the results particularly on PBMCs. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Mitochondrial complex activity in permeabilised cells of chronic fatigue syndrome patients using two cell types (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6500v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is well written and most of the references are appropriately cited. The authors have covered the literature and background of the study logically and appropriately. The language of the manuscript explaining results and background reads elegant. The scientific findings are clearly explained in professional English throughout the manuscript. The article conforms to an acceptable format of the journal. Figures legends are well described, and figures are of acceptable quality. However, in line 63-68 quote “Previous studies have shown the energy production, including mitochondrial activity, of whole PBMCs from CFS patients to be significantly impaired compared to a healthy control cohort (4, 15). One study showed CFS PBMCs to have significantly impaired mitochondrial functioning both under basal conditions and when maximally stimulated to respire, under a number of experimental conditions (4).” I would suggest authors to slightly elaborate on the technique used in previous study to draw the conclusion of defective mitochondrial function. Then it will bring the contrast of technological limitation of previous findings and importance of extracellular flux assay as used in the current study.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The present study has clearly and unambiguously laid down the research question and the experiments are well designed to support the claims. The study investigated a plausible mitochondrial dysfunction as a cause of CFS. Authors explored this hypothesis using extracellular flux assay using seahorse. It serves as a great tool to fill in the gap on functional role of mitochondrial ETC complex in the pathogenesis of CFS. The method section has been well described for any independent investigator to repeat the study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Authors have taken good care to include proper control in their data representation. The conclusions in the present study is appropriately stated and authors themselves are cautious in making far stretched conclusion of the study, which is impressive. Small sample sized of the study is also well acknowledged by the authors while drawing conclusion from the experiments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Though the study shows a negative data, but the authors in the study have used all proper controls to draw their conclusion. I will recommend this work to be accepted for publication with no revision. One thought I ahd was, it would have been nice if authors had used some positive control e.g. say cells with defect in complex 1 activity in their seahorse study to at least show that the assay is working but their experimental setup do not show any positive effects between control and CFS derived myotubes/PBMC. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Mitochondrial complex activity in permeabilised cells of chronic fatigue syndrome patients using two cell types (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6500v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 18, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
