Review History for Validation of reference genes for gene expression studies in tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) using quantitative real-time PCR [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Validation of reference genes for gene expression studies in tartary buckwheat ( Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) using quantitative real-time PCR To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 19th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 7th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on January 26th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 28th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tatiana Tatarinova
·
Jan 28, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors Thank you very much for submitting the revision on time. Your paper is now acceptable for publication. I hope that you will submit your next paper to PeerJ. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Jeffrey Ross-Ibarra, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 26, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tatiana Tatarinova
·
Jan 7, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The three reviewers agreed that you manuscript is of good quality, requiring only several minor changes. It will be a useful resource for scientific community.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 12, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript by Li et al described the validation of 7 genes from Tartary buckwheat for use as reference genes in quantitative realtime PCR for gene expression study under abiotic stress condition. Good reference genes for different stresses or tissue types were reported. The study design was fine as it followed similar standard article of this kind. The manuscript was well-written with clear and plain English.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The study design was fine as it followed similar standard article of this kind.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The manuscript could attract reader's interest upon publication and may provide a set of reference genes for gene expression study in Tartary buckwheat in the future which may help easier to compare cross-study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
However, before the manuscript can be accepted for publication, this reviewer would like to ask the authors to address the followings: The authors should provide a rationale on their selections of these 7 genes for validation. If a good rationale cannot be provided, the conclusion can only be restricted to "the best reference gene among the 7 genes validated", in some cases, there are best/better reference genes out there but were not included in this validation study. One of the way to check if the seven genes selected were actualy the best candidates is to survey in publicly available expression data of tatary buckwheat for the top stably expressed genes and see if these 7 genes were among the list. As geNorm has been known to rank co-regulated genes as the best reference genes, the authors should address this in the discussion. What the authors will suggest to avoid this. About the 7 genes selected for validation, the authors should link the gene names into respective gene IDs, if available. As we know especially in plant, there always several highly homologous members in a gene family. In the case gene IDs are not yet available, a full sequence of each of the candidate gene must be supplied for future reference of the work. Some minor comments: - Scientific name of Tartary buckwheat should be provided in the title Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Validation of reference genes for gene expression studies in tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) using quantitative real-time PCR (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6522v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 30, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors present novel experimental study which results can be widely applied for gene expression studies in Fagopyrum. The manuscript is technically sound and I have only minor comments: Lines 99-104 “Selection of candidate reference genes and design of qRT-PCR primers” Could you provide here any rationale why exactly these genes were selected? Are the designed primers falls within single exon or not? Line 117 - “Other statistical procedures were performed with SPSS v17.0. “ - please clarify what exactly was done; Fig. 1 – please explain in the figure caption what the boxes and whiskers mean on the plot; Fig. 3 and Fig. 4 - please explain in the figure caption what the whiskers mean; Line 45 - add references for geNorm, normFinder and BestKeeper here (i.e. upon first mention). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Validation of reference genes for gene expression studies in tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) using quantitative real-time PCR (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6522v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Jan 5, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
- The manuscript "Validation of reference genes for gene expression studies in Tartary buckwheat using quantitative real-time PCR" described the validation of five ref genes for internal normalization to calculate the expression level of gene(s) in tartary buckwheat. The manuscript is suited to the PeerJ as per aims and scope. - The Introduction (47 lines) has provided a comprehensive background of the necessary of ref gene(s) and the identification of the ref gene(s) in the kingdom. - The figures and references were relevant and well-described.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
- The materials and methods are suitable and were described carefully with right citations.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
- The results and conclusion were fully stated and tightly linked with the research question.
Comments for the author
- Comment #1: The authors should rephrase the sentence in L17-L20. The colon should not be used in the manuscript. - Comment #2: The authors should check the tense in the sentence in L20-L24. - Comment #3: Three statistical algorithms, including geNorm, normFinder and BestKeeper should be cited with right reference(s). (L45-46 and L.115-117). - Comment #4: The sentence in L47-48 should be cited. - Comment #5: Need a space between "in the work,we aimded" (L.70). - Comment #6: FtEF-1a and FtSAND should be italicized in L.138. - Comment #7: The author should abbreviate the quantification cycle (Cq) at the first mention (not like in L.175). The 'aluminum' should be used as 'Al' in whole text after the first mention of the abbreviation. - Comment #8: "t" in "buckwheat" should not be italicized in L.192. - Comment #9: The author should check the style of citation in L. 206. - Comment #10: Please, check and put the style and word(s) of all references in the right form (REF. 4, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 33, etc). - Comment #11: The FtSTAR2 and FtDFR in the legend of Figure 3 and 4 should be italicized, respectively. All gene names in Figure 4 should be italicized. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Validation of reference genes for gene expression studies in tartary buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum Gaertn.) using quantitative real-time PCR (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6522v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 19, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
