Review History for TarSynFlow, a workflow for bacterial genome comparisons that revealed genes putatively involved in the probiotic character of Shewanella putrefaciens strain Pdp11 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History TarSynFlow, a workflow for bacterial genome comparisons that revealed genes putatively involved in the probiotic character of Shewanella putrefaciens strain Pdp11 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 20th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 14th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on January 26th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 28th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Jan 28, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Seoane and colleagues: Thanks for revising your manuscript based on the concerns raised by the two reviewers. I now believe that your manuscript is suitable for publication. Congratulations! I look forward to seeing this work in print, and I anticipate it being an important resource for communities studying methods in comparative genomics and gene targeting. Thanks again for choosing PeerJ to publish such important work. Best, -joe # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Valeria Souza, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 26, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Jan 14, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Seoane and colleagues: Thanks for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. I have now received two independent reviews of your work, and as you will see, both are very favorable. Well done! Nonetheless, both reviewers raised some relatively minor concerns about the research, and areas where the manuscript can be improved. I agree with the reviewers, and thus feel that their concerns should be adequately addressed before moving forward. Therefore, I am recommending that you revise your manuscript accordingly, taking into account all of the issues raised by the reviewers. I do believe that your manuscript will be ready for publication once these issues are addressed. Good luck with your revision, -joe
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 6, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
'no comment'
Experimental design
label_ed_1
'no comment'
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
'no comment'
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript entitled “TarSynFlow, a workflow for bacterial genome comparisons that revealed genes putatively involved in the probiotic character of Shewanella putrefaciens strain Pdp11”, by Seoane et al., presents an interesting bioinformatic tool (Targeted Synteny Workflow) for comparative genomic analysis. The authors show that the application of such tool for genome comparison between probiotic vs non-probiotic strains is of upmost importance, and might allow to identify probiosis related genes, further detailing current knowledge on probiotics mechanisms of action. The manuscript is very well written, the methodologies used are adequate and well described, with exception of a few clarifications that authors should do, to improve the overall quality of the manuscript before acceptance for publication. 1.The authors can add some justification to sequence just six out of the 16 gene amplicons analyzed, and also tentatively comment on the low identity percentage obtained for 2 of the sequences, namely 88.25 and 78.41%. 2.In the bottom of Figure 4, the protein code, rather than the protein function, should be used to maintain the same nomenclature throughout the paper and facilitate the comparison with Tables 2, 5 and 6. 3.Line 106: please correct the “dose at which 50% of bacteria die”, since are not the bacteria who die 4.Line 118: please check the code provided PRJNA510237, since no its can be found at the BioProject database at NCBI 5.Line 221: please replace the word “goodness” for a more scientific one such as potential, applicability, effectiveness, etc 6.Line 326: please correct “Nevetheless” to Nevertheless 7.Line 352: “are” at the end should be deleted 8.Line 371: “competence” should be replaced by “competition” 9.Lines 380-382: the authors should add some reference(s) to support the sentence describing Pdp11 strain as being resistant to bacteriocins Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "TarSynFlow, a workflow for bacterial genome comparisons that revealed genes putatively involved in the probiotic character of Shewanella putrefaciens strain Pdp11 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6526v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Carlo Lazado ·
Jan 11, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is generally well written. The statements and arguments are presented in a clear manner. The figures are clear and easy to follow.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question and hypothesis are clearly presented. Deatils are available for this paper to be reproduced. This is particularly important since the manuscript is describing a a method or approach.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The method presented here is highly valuable for the progress of probiotics research in fish. The data are presented in a highly understandable manner. The implications are logical and are supported by the data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Figure 1. a more descriptive caption would improve this figure. At present, it is too short and vague. The reader needs to scan through the text in order to understand the figure. Table 4 is best presented through a venn digram. Cite this review as
Lazado C ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "TarSynFlow, a workflow for bacterial genome comparisons that revealed genes putatively involved in the probiotic character of Shewanella putrefaciens strain Pdp11 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6526v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 20, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
