Review History for Revision of the Afro-Madagascan genus Costularia (Schoeneae, Cyperaceae): infrageneric relationships and species delimitation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Revision of the Afro-Madagascan genus Costularia (Schoeneae, Cyperaceae): infrageneric relationships and species delimitation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 30th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 14th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 23rd, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 28th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mike Thiv
·
Jan 28, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors, Isabel, Thank you for implementing minor changes. I think the ms. is in good order now and regard it as accepted. I have just made a very few changes in the newly uploaded text l. 77 & 484. You may check and approve them. Best wishes Mike # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by David Roberts, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 23, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mike Thiv
·
Dec 14, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors, 2 reviewers are quite positive with your submitted ms. Both suggest to minor changes, most of them in the annotated PDFs. Please consider these points for final acceptance of your ms. Best wishes Mike Thiv
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 9, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript entitled “Revision of the Afro-Madagascan genus Costularia (Schoeneae, Cyperaceae): infrageneric reationships and species delimitation” is a quite complete and excellent revisión, using morphological and molecular tools, of Costularia, one of the least studied Cyperaceae genera until now. English is correct and references are appropriate. All figures and tables are an essential complement to understand the results and conclusions and the paper structure is also appropriate. Introduction summarizes well the background of this taxonomically difficult group. In most cases, morphological features match very well with molecular results and taxonomic conclusions are well supported. I have indicate in the attached pdf file numerous corrections and comments that, in my opinión, could contribute to improve the manuscript. The most important weakness of the paper is relative to descriptions of the species, highly heterogeneous. Authors must systematize the lengh, order and content of them. Moreover, in several cases, monophyly of the species was not tested or scarcely supported, although I can understand that it is very difficult to get sufficient materials of several species and, anyway, I think that the taxonomic results would not be very different.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
This article is suitable for publication in Peer Journal. Conclusions are a very important contribution to the systematics of the family Cyperaceae. Methodology is detailed and appropriate, although nowadays there are molecular tools more conclusives as the employ of Next Generation Sequencing; nevertheless, as it is a scarcely collected genus, I can understand the difficulties to use those techniques.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
This paper shows important novelties for researchers in systematics, mainly for cyperologists. The statistical data (support of the clades) are generally highly robusts. Conclusions are coherent with results. Few important speculations are made.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No comment Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Revision of the Afro-Madagascan genus Costularia (Schoeneae, Cyperaceae): infrageneric relationships and species delimitation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6528v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Pedro Jiménez-Mejías ·
Dec 13, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The present work presents a nice, clear and much needed revision of the problematic genus Costularia (Cyperaceae) in its entire distribution area. According to the expertise in Cyperaceae of some of the authors, they present an accurate background of the topic, investigate the taxonomy of the group using accurate molecular and morphological approaches, and present the results and discussion in a perfectly clear manner. The English is professional and do not need correction, although I detected a few typos. References, figures and tables are accurate (and very nice!). The new taxa they describe are prefectly justified. Even they contained the description of a clearly new species because of having too few material (although I would encourage the authors to do it in this paper). Overall, it is a very nice piece of work, worth to be published in PeerJ.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The materials, tools, experimental approach and test designs are accurate for an extensive taxonomic study like the one that is presented here. The explanation of the methods is fine, although I suggest some minor improvements in the attached file. There is no doubt that the procedures have been performed with rigorous caution and ethics.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors present the taxonomic revision of a group that was needed of study. They present completely new data that accurately update with the use of modern tools other older works in the group. The work seems quite robust, their results sounds and the conclusions well stated.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I attach a commented file with additional suggestions that I consider that will improve the quality of the manuscript. Regarding the taxonomic treatments, the changes resquested in the first species must be performed over the entire set of synopses. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Jiménez-Mejías P ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Revision of the Afro-Madagascan genus Costularia (Schoeneae, Cyperaceae): infrageneric relationships and species delimitation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6528v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 30, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
