Review History for An interpretable machine learning model for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History An interpretable machine learning model for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 10th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 6th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 11th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on January 30th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 30th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Shawn Gomez
·
Jan 30, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your attention to the comments. Congratulations again! # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Elena Papaleo, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 30, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Shawn Gomez
·
Jan 22, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
There is just a single aspect of the manuscript that would need to be addressed before finalizing acceptance. In your author list, you indicate the "Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative" as authors. While data was used from this consortium, it is indicated as a footnote that this group did not contribute to the analysis or writing. It would normally be best to acknowledge the consortium as the source of the data, along with any relevant citations, rather than have them as part of the author list (which would normally imply that they also had the opportunity to review and or contribute to any other aspect of the manuscript). So to summarize, what is being suggested is that this be removed from the author list and the Initiative instead being listed within the acknowledgements as well as cited wherever else appropriate. Thanks for addressing this and do contact myself or editorial staff if there are questions or concerns.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 11, 2019
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Shawn Gomez
·
Dec 6, 2018
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
First, very sorry for the length of time it has taken to get your manuscript reviewed. Please do address the reviewer concerns, with comparison to a generic decision tree and/or CORELS being very useful.
label_author_1
Muhammad Jaleed Khan ·
Nov 22, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Authors have presented a machine learning model named SHIMR for automated diagnosis of Alzheimer's and tested the proposed system on ADNI dataset. The detailed experimental results show that SHIMR is comparable to the comparative methods in terms of accuracy and it is comparatively more cost-effective and reliable. 1. Text in Figure 2(B) is hard to read. Text size should be increased. 2. Line#73: "He" should be named with citation to avoid ambiguity. Similar ambiguities should be removed. 3. Text in Figure 4(C) and Figure 4(D) is hard to read. Text size should be increased.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Decision tree and traditional machine learning methods are a good choice for this topic. However, authors should also review methods based on state of the art deep learning methods. Hyperspectral imaging can also aid in improving automated diagnosis. The following articles should be cited to improve the literature review: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-018-22871-z , https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8314827/ , https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.03876 , https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8346384
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The experimental analysis is comprehensive and nicely concluded. Authors should also mention any possible risks involved in using machine learning for precision medicine and adopting SHIMR for automated diagnosis for Alzheimer's.
Cite this review as
Khan MJ ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "An interpretable machine learning model for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6543v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 3, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I see only small problems with the writing and presentation. The figures associated with the resulting rule systems are very well done. Please convert the supplemental documents into PDFs to make them easier to access. Figure 5 needs to be revised or the associated text changed. I attempted to manually determine the model score from the matched rules, but was only successful on the NC case (part A). I'm guessing that the only rule that matched in Part A was the first rule, thus making the score calculation work with the displayed results. For Part B, I calculated that the model score as displayed should be 0.68 (0.53+0.43-0.28), but the overall model score is 1.1. I'm assuming that some of the other excluded rules match for Part B, but this should be either acknowledged in the figure caption or the figure modified to show the full rule set and associated matches.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The design of novel algorithms/systems for explainable decision making is interesting. The associated source code appears to be complete with appropriate instructions for usage.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No major comments, all of the data and results appear to be statistically sound. Can the authors add a statement concerning the standard runtime of the algorithm? What was the runtime to produce the rule set in Figure 4C?
Comments for the author
This system is sufficiently different from a vanilla decision tree to merit publication, but I don't completely agree with the idea that it is somehow more interpretable than a vanilla decision tree. Comparing the rule set in Fig 4C and the decision tree in 4D, the process of using the decision tree seems simpler to me with a more straight forward interpretation. Another system that produces similarly simple rule sets is the CORELS system that is cited in the paper. How many rules does it take for the CORELS output to reach a similar AUC to the SHIMR output? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "An interpretable machine learning model for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6543v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 10, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
