Review History for Effect of the flavonoid baicalin on the proliferative capacity of bovine mammary cells and their ability to regulate oxidative stress [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effect of the flavonoid baicalin on the proliferative capacity of bovine mammary cells and their ability to regulate oxidative stress To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 9th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 22nd, 2019. The first revision was submitted on January 31st, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 5th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Javier Alvarez-Rodriguez
·
Feb 5, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
We acknowledge you for addressing the suggested comments in a satisfactory way. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 31, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Javier Alvarez-Rodriguez
·
Jan 22, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear authors, In addition to reviewers' comments, it would be advisable to include the word 'flavonoid' somewhere in the title in order to set the framework of baicalin compound. We look forward to hearing from you soon.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 5, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Clear, unambiguous, professional English language used throughout. Intro & background to show context. Literature well referenced & relevant. I suggest you to specify that the metabolic diseases “milk fever, ketosis” at line 45 are examples. I recommend (e.g., milk fever and ketosis). Citations from the line 54 (Miller et al., 1993, Harrison et al., 1984, Allison and Laven, 2000) does not meet the editing requirements of the journal, please consider: (Miller et al., 1993; Harrison et al., 1984; Allison and Laven, 2000). Also, Miller et al. 1993, Harrison et al., 1984, and Allison and Laven, 2000 are missing in references list. The name of Scutellaria at line 64 must be written in italics. The reference (Robert et al., 2014) at line 79 must be written (Robert, Leboeuf & Dupuis, 2014) The reference (Yu et al, 2015) at line 270 must be written (Yu, Pei & Li, 2015) The reference Lin et al. at the line 282 don’t have the year in brackets. The reference Loor et al. (2018) at line 305 is missing in references list. The reference (Kensler et al. (2007) at lines 310-311 is missing in references list. The reference (Wiese et al., 1995) at line 323 must be written (Wiese, Pacifici & Davies, 1995) The reference (Jin et al., 2016) at lines 334-335 is missing in references list. The Structure of References section is not conforms to PeerJ standards. Structure conforms to PeerJ standards, discipline norm, or improved for clarity. Figures are relevant, high quality, well labelled & described. Raw data supplied.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Original primary research within Scope of the journal. Research question well defined, relevant & meaningful. It is stated how the research fills an identified knowledge gap. Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical & ethical standard. Methods described with sufficient detail & information to replicate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled. Conclusions are well stated, linked to original research question & limited to supporting results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Many references in the text are missing in the References section. This scientific article can be accepted but after revision Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effect of the flavonoid baicalin on the proliferative capacity of bovine mammary cells and their ability to regulate oxidative stress (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6565v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Nicolae Tiberiu Constantin ·
Dec 10, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Hello! Please pay attention to the modifications! Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Constantin NT ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effect of the flavonoid baicalin on the proliferative capacity of bovine mammary cells and their ability to regulate oxidative stress (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6565v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Jan 14, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Briefly, the paper is scientifically valid, well written and clear. References are OK. Professional English Language is used and it is fluent. Suggestions are below. Fig 1 Legend, please be more concise for panel A; “The reaction product was quantified by measuring the absorbance at 370 nm with a reference wavelength of 492 nm.”, this sentence could be removed. “Minus Fluorescence Intensity (MFI)”, I guess the authors wanted to write “mean” or “median” instead of minus. Did they? Fig 3 Legend, Random numbers are present in the text starting from this Figure, e.g. “…6 hydroxyl radicals”, “…7 dichlorofluorescein (DCF”)”, etc “The fluorescence was measured with a multi-detection microplate reader using an 8 excitation and emission light at 485 nm and 535 nm, respectively.”, this sentence could be removed Fig 4 Title, please correct H2O2 to H2O2, please remove the “3” before “production. Line 131 “XX” hours. Please add the right time or rephrase 283 “in vivo” it should be italic 302 “H2O2”, 317 “in vitro”, it should be italic 343 “in vivo”, it should be italic
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Material are very detailed and methodology are accurate and appropriate. The experiments seem clear and reproducible. Labelling used for statistical significance is unordinary and may confuse the reader. I recommend to display the differences between the values in a different way and use asterisks for significance level.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The manuscript provides novel insights into modulation of mammalian antioxidant defences by baicalin. The research question is confined while sufficiently supported by the results. The discussion is well stated and coincise. In the abstract the authors wrote “Baicalin prevented apoptosis at low concentrations (10 µg/mL)…”, but I suggest the authors to use a different verb.
Comments for the author
Fig 1 panel C seems a bit uncomplete or uninformative as it stands. The filed is evolving and interesting. Improved in vitro models will help your future research and following impact. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Effect of the flavonoid baicalin on the proliferative capacity of bovine mammary cells and their ability to regulate oxidative stress (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6565v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 9, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
