Review History for An assessment for health education and health promotion in chronic disease demonstration districts: a comparative study from Hunan Province, China [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History An assessment for health education and health promotion in chronic disease demonstration districts: a comparative study from Hunan Province, China To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 11th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 14th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 14th, 2019 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 6th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Gregory Gilbert
·
Feb 6, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you very much for addressing all the reviewers' comments. Thank you especially for the language editing. Congratulations!
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 4, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The English language is improved.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is sound.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The study has interesting findings although validity remains unknown due to low number of samples.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I do not have additional comments. I will like to congratulate authors for their work. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "An assessment for health education and health promotion in chronic disease demonstration districts: a comparative study from Hunan Province, China (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6579v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 14, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Gregory Gilbert
·
Dec 14, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please be attentive to the comments of the reviewers and attend to all of them where possible. This editor takes issue with the one reviewer's comment that a large enough sample size is not used. If that were the case the reviewer should have rejected the manuscript on first review because collecting more observations is not feasible. The most salient issue brought out by the reviews is the need for native English language editing. Please have a native English speaker edit the paper or pay a service to edit the paper. Thank you very much for your efforts. I truly look forward to receiving a "clean" copy of your work.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 12, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
•English language: The English language should be improved to make sure that the international audience can understand the text. Think about having a native English speaking colleague review the manuscript. Some examples where the language could be improved include lines 28, 29, 42-43, 44, 71-72,… •There is clearly a need for the creation of quality indicators to measure health education and promotion efforts. Potentially think about working on flow of introduction to help the author better grasp the need. •Professional article structure, figs, tables: I am not familiar with RSR, so I am only commenting on Delphi-related tables and figures. Potentially think about expanding Figure 1 to visual show what occurred during Round 1 and Round 2 of Delphi method. You have the potential to show a lot of information in an aesthetically pleasing manner that will be more easily understood versus the text. See Li e al. (2014) “Framework of behavioral indicators for outcome evaluation of TB health promotion: a Delphi study of TB suspect and TB patients” for their Figure 1. Great article to use as a resource. •Raw data shared and accessible. •The article is a bit busy with three primary purposes.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
•Primary research within Aims & Scope of journal: This article is focused on Health Sciences – mainly monitoring population health through a novel method. •Research question well defined, relevant & meaningful: the research question could be improved and written more clearly. Abstract: “This study was designed to construct such quality indicators, have a grasp of the work status of health education and promotion in the districts, and explore the main factors involved to promote the work.” This is a bit busy, potentially think about splitting up. “This study was designed to establish a framework of indicators for outcome evaluation of health education and promotion efforts in Chinese districts.” And then continuing with your secondary purposes. •Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical & ethical standard: Lines 131-132 – typically informed consent is a bit more formal than “it was regarded as informed consent.” (I am not an expert on RSR and therefore am not commenting.) •Methods described with sufficient detail & information to replicate: improvement needed. More information about the Selection of Delphi experts, Instrument for Delphi surveys, consider putting the consensus level in bullet form for easy reading, Figure 1 could be improved (see Basic Reporting section), consider splitting Table 2 into two separate tables for ease of reading with 1st round results in one table, and 2nd round results in the second table. •Creating a table devoted to the framework of indicators would be helpful to readers to cleaning depict your results.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
•Again, I’m not speaking on RSR only Delphi method. Reporting the median and standard deviation is not what I am accustomed to, typically mean and standard deviation or median and mode. Would consider changing standard deviation to mode in Table 2. •I suggest having a native English speaker assist in editing the discussion and conclusions to help make the sections more easily understandable and readable for your audience.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I think the creation of the quality indicators by the modified-Delphi process should be the main focus of the paper. More information could be provided on the process while lessening the focus on the descriptives of the counties and RSR. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "An assessment for health education and health promotion in chronic disease demonstration districts: a comparative study from Hunan Province, China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6579v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 14, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
English is hard to follow with adjectives used to define results without any quantitative parameter.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Research question well defined, relevant & meaningful. Rigorous investigation is not performed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Data is not controlled.
Comments for the author
The number of participants in this study is too small. It is not possible to reach any conclusion with this number. There are other problems. The manuscript is hard to follow, and its fundamental hypothesis is not underlined. Abstract is written very poorly and does not provide clear understanding of results. The authors did not define DELPHI process in Introduction or results. The authors use adjective to define their results however how that conclusion is reached is not addressed. 1.The study participants are senior doctors with a mean of 21 year experience. What is the control of this group, a comparison of individuals with similar work experience who are not doctors. The other group of individuals who are doctors but have significantly less experience is required to compare with first group. 2.Line 23 “This study was designed to construct such quality indicators, have a grasp of the work status of health education and promotion in the districts, and explore the main factors involved to promote the work. “ The authors did not define quality indicators. 3.Line 82 “A modified Delphi method (conducted between late 2013 and 2014) was firstly used to build quality indicators. “ What is quality indicators? 4.Line 204 “Overall, NCD demonstration districts performed better in health education and health promotion than that of non-NCD demonstration districts. “ Define better ? 5.The English language needs to be improved. Many sentences are too long and are vague. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "An assessment for health education and health promotion in chronic disease demonstration districts: a comparative study from Hunan Province, China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6579v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 11, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
