Review History for Environmental inactivation and irrigation-mediated regrowth of Escherichia coli O157:H7 on romaine lettuce when inoculated in a fecal slurry matrix [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Environmental inactivation and irrigation-mediated regrowth of Escherichia coli O157:H7 on romaine lettuce when inoculated in a fecal slurry matrix To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 29th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 11th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on February 8th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 10th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mya Breitbart
·
Feb 10, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for taking the time to address the reviewers' concerns and clarify the methodological details. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Valeria Souza, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 8, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mya Breitbart
·
Jan 11, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for your patience, getting reviews completed over the holidays is always tricky. Both reviewers were generally positive about the paper and only have minor suggestions for revisions that should be addressed before the paper can be accepted for publication.
label_author_1
Karl Matthews ·
Dec 18, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is logical in flow and appropriate reference to previous studies thereby providing context for the research.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methods are appropriate and detail is of nature that will permit replication of the study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusion generated are supported by the data presented. Authors were cautious to not over generalize the significance of the findings. Indeed, based on this studies and those in the literature it appears that significant variability can be associated wit behavior of STEC on crops within a region and between geographic regions. Makes good case for "additional research" must be conducted.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Not very clear why rabbit, poultry (chicken) and pig manures were used. What would be source of these manures...wild (rabbit) and feral (pig) animals? Application of chicken bedding pellets? Were these types of manure used in other studies (besides Chase et. al., 2017)? Authors may need to provide more information rather than just referring to previous publication. Why were the inoculated slurries held at 4C? Cold shock the cells? Was this also done in other studies? Why was PBS used for dilution of feces? Seems water would be more appropriate. Would the type of feces influence survival as much as other factors evaluated? I know that only so much can be tested. Not certain whether information exists form previous studies. Cite this review as
Matthews K ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Environmental inactivation and irrigation-mediated regrowth of Escherichia coli O157:H7 on romaine lettuce when inoculated in a fecal slurry matrix (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6591v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 8, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This paper is well written and appropriate references have been cited.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experimental design is pretty straightforward with no major flaws. The authors referred their previous work but they should briefly describe the methodologies.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I don't think this paper is novel but it has useful data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
L25: This study was done in 2012 and I am wondering why it took 6 years to write this paper. L25: E. coli - name in full. L117: How many times this strain was grown in the lab? L127: How did you make sure the feces was fresh? L127: How many animal fecal samples were collected? Just one for each species? L133: Did the authors homegenize the fecal slurry? L150: Please describe the methods briefly here. L161: 340 - lower detection limit? It doesn't seem that good considering the low dose of O157:H7 L165: What is recovery rate of this approach? L166: Provide data as supplemental. L169: How many isolates were confirmed? 10% is vague. Table 1: very basic. should be presented in the supplementary materials. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Environmental inactivation and irrigation-mediated regrowth of Escherichia coli O157:H7 on romaine lettuce when inoculated in a fecal slurry matrix (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6591v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 29, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
