Review History for Transcriptome sequencing of olfactory-related genes in olfactory transduction of large yellow croaker (Larimichthy crocea) in response to bile salts [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Transcriptome sequencing of olfactory-related genes in olfactory transduction of large yellow croaker ( Larimichthy crocea ) in response to bile salts To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 2nd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 3rd, 2019. The first revision was submitted on January 30th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on February 15th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 15th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
James Reimer
·
Feb 15, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
While there are a few small issues remaining (author names in capital letters or not in the References), I believe this paper is now ready to go into production as the English is now much better and up to international standards. Thank you very much for your hard work. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by James Reimer, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section # # PeerJ Staff Note - we have a MS Word file with one or two small edits from the Editor. We will forward this to you via email#
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 15, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.2
James Reimer
·
Feb 10, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have gone over the resubmission myself. In general, you have responded well to the comments of the two reviewers, and the paper is much easier to read, with a much better Discussion. I do note some small English errors here and there, and locations where your meaning is obscure. As well, the Acknowledgements are incomplete, and the Reference section must be completely formatted and checked; there are many inconsistencies as it is now. Thus, while your paper is now scientifically acceptable, I am returning this to you for one round of checks and formatting as these are above the level we can ask our editing office to perform. Please respond to the comments in the attached MSWord file in detail in your new rebuttal file. I look forward to seeing a resubmission.
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 30, 2019
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Reimer
·
Jan 3, 2019
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I have heard from two reviewers, both of whom agree your manuscript has merit to eventually be published, while also noting that more work is needed on general discussion. I would particularly pay attention to the first reviewer's comments on redoing the discussion, and agree largely with their constructive comments. In my own review, I also wish to emphasize two points. First of all, the English has numerous odd mistakes (using "&" instead of "and"; species name capitalization mistakes, for example) that need correction. Please edit the English thoroughly and provide a certificate of editing by a company, or the name of the person and email address for whomever edits the paper. Note PeerJ does not perform in-house editing as part of their production process, and so your paper MUST meet international scientific English status. I will not send the paper out for review until this point is cleared. As well, you must clearly delineate how the current data are different from data used in this paper: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/are.13559 You must also clearly explain if the fish or dataset used are the same or different (generated at the same or different times), and clearly explain all your methodologies concretely. As in your previous paper above you suggest "Furthermore, improved understanding via olfactory epithelium transcriptomic analysis would inform the development of an all–plant protein diet for L. crocea." and it seems that is what you have done, I cannot understand why you fail to reference your own work.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 15, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Clear and unambiguous, professional English used throughout. Must be improved (see report below) Literature references, sufficient field background/context provided. 'no comment' Professional article structure, figs, tables. Raw data shared. 'no comment' Self-contained with relevant results to hypotheses. Must be improved (see report below)
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The present paper by Jiabao et al. investigated the expression of olfactory-related genes stimulated by bile salts in olfactory transduction in the fish Larimichthys crocea. The experimental level of study as well formal aspects are very good. The object of study has attracted larger research interest and present submitted study deepens the knowledge of this interesting model. As such, MS could be good contribution; however, the text itself suffers from many problems and unfortunately in present version must be rejected. This MS is a classical example of nice data lost in poorly, superficially formulated text. Both the English writing style (see comments below) and the general organization from Abstract/Introduction and particularly the discussion, which in the present form contains a lot of introduction material and looks like an expansion of the results section, more than in fact, discuss hypothesis and present a solid home message for the readers. I listed some (not necessary all) examples of incongruences in the text and suggest the authors to complete reformulate Abstract/Intro/discussion whole structure before any new attempt of submission. Fish x fishes Please keep in mind that Fish can refer to multiple fish individuals, especially when they are all the same species of fish. Fishes, however, usually refers to multiple species, especially in scientific contexts. Therefore, most of the places in the text the correct plural form should be Fishes. Keywords should not repeat words from the Title. Please select a different set of. Lines 48-57: The word “bile salts” appeared 8 times just in these sentences. Please find a different way of referring to it in order to avoid constant repetition of words (E.g: “Bile salts are biliary constituents derived from cholesterol that are synthesized in the liver and stored in the gall bladder (Haslewood, 1967). Regulated by different transport proteins, they are released into the intestinal” Lines 56-57: This can be deleted or moved to final part of introduction, since its content is the same present in lines 69-70. Line 85: Please provide the number of such protocols. Lines 199-205: This paragraph can be moved to the introduction since it does not represent any discussion of your data. In the same way, Lines 216-224 can be moved to the introduction since it does not represent any discussion of your data. Line 232: Besides, we found that 17 TAAR genes were all up-regulated and were ….. Lines 246- 254. Again can be moved to the introduction since it does not represent any discussion of your data. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Transcriptome sequencing of olfactory-related genes in olfactory transduction of large yellow croaker (Larimichthy crocea) in response to bile salts (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6627v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 2, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The text of the manuscript by Hu and colaborators is clear and the English is appropriate. There are some small mistakes that need correction: e.g. 1 "L. Crocea" needs to be changed to "L. crocea" in many parts of the manuscript; e.g. 2 "adaption" change to "adaptation". I think that the specially in the introduction some additional changes should be introduced: its somewhat ambiguous the central aim of the work - the dataset is valuable and the analysis look correct, but I would ask to provide in the introduction a better focus. For example, comparative analysis with similar studies; olfactory systems in fish etc, and the reference list is in some cases old (not that its bad but for sure other more recent studies exist). The figures and tables look appropriate (except figure 4 which looks a bit pixellated). Some sections should be more self contained: lines 231-236; lines 274-284 (not clear at all).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Most of the experimental design is appropriate. Yet, the authors should define better defined; what is the gap? I failed to see how the RNA seq was conducted - how many samples were sequenced? Individual sequencing or pulls? Why 5 minutes to observe the behavior?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I find the results valide but see comments above.
Comments for the author
NA Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Transcriptome sequencing of olfactory-related genes in olfactory transduction of large yellow croaker (Larimichthy crocea) in response to bile salts (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6627v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 2, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
