Review History for Genetic data of museum specimens allow for inferring evolutionary history of the cosmopolitan genus Sirthenea (Heteroptera: Reduviidae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Genetic data of museum specimens allow for inferring evolutionary history of the cosmopolitan genus Sirthenea (Heteroptera: Reduviidae) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 30th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 11th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on February 18th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 18th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Feb 18, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Chlond and colleagues: Thanks for revising your manuscript based on the concerns raised by the two reviewers. I now believe that your manuscript is suitable for publication. Congratulations! I look forward to seeing this work in print, and I anticipate it being an important resource for communities studying Sirthenea systematics and overall reduviid biology. Thanks again for choosing PeerJ to publish such important work. Best, -joe # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by David Roberts, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 18, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Feb 11, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Chlond and colleagues: Thanks for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. I have now received two independent reviews of your work, and as you will see, both are very favorable. Well done! Nonetheless, the reviewers raised some relatively minor concerns about the research, and areas where the manuscript can be improved. I agree with the reviewers, and thus feel that their concerns should be adequately addressed before moving forward. Therefore, I am recommending that you revise your manuscript accordingly, taking into account all of the issues raised by the reviewers. I do believe that your manuscript will be ready for publication once these issues are addressed. Good luck with your revision, -joe
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 9, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper reports substantial new research and analysis of a major group of true bugs with very good taxonomic diversity represented in the analyses. The manuscript is presented in an intelligible fashion and written in standard English. The background of the performed study is clearly presented with the special emphasis of the gaps in the present knowledge of reduviids’ phylogeny and evolution. The literature cited is well-chosen. All morphological characters, presented in the data set matrix (raw data), are very well figured (Figs. 1-3) and clearly described.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The Chapter Material and Methods is very well organized with distinct subdivision for three main tasks: Molecular data analyses with the divergence time estimation and phylogenetic analysis of the taxa studied as well as Morphological analyses with attaching very detailed data set matrix. Therefore, the analysis can be repeated by other researchers and the matrix can be used for other studies on phylogeny of true bugs. All analysis are based on strong data obtained.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Very few reports have attempted to present phylogenetic analyses of both molecular and morphological datasets in a single paper - therefore presented manuscript is an important contribution in systematics of this group of insects. Complement in the form of a molecular clock completes the work well (Fig. 4). In the manuscript, the background of the ecological conditions (i.e. the presence of the available niches), sheds new light on Sirthenea global distribution. This aspect is thoroughly discussed. Conclusions are well stated. It is worthy to underline, that the work is well connected with earlier studies of authors on the genus Sirthenea.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The presented manuscript is a significant contribution to understanding the relationships within interesting assasin bugs genus of unique global distribution. It is an important study because it combines molecular, morphological and biological data with broad taxonomic sampling. The paper is nicely organized overall. The data analysis is precise, appropriate and thorough. The results and figures are clear. The discussion of the results and the implications for further study are very clearly stated. Comment on strengths of the manuscript -Important group of insect with a stable taxonomy (the revision of the genus Sirthenea has already been done) and unique global distribution; - extensive data set compiled from numerous worldwide entomological collections (all known species of the genus Sirthenea have been analyzed); - an innovative method of DNA extraction (the ability to analyze very old material); - well defined ecological and biogeographical background to the obtained results, especially “the fossula spongiosa theory” . Comment on weaknesses of the manuscript - Poorly presented abstract which definitely should be improved - Information if the Morphological matrix is an original ones, created by the authors should be added. My only reservation is to do with the abstract improving. This part needs more information on materials and methods and results obtained. This is important work and deserves to be much better presented. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Genetic data of museum specimens allow for inferring evolutionary history of the cosmopolitan genus Sirthenea (Heteroptera: Reduviidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6640v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 11, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I feel that the Discussion section not sufficiently elaborates the phylogeographic aspect of the study. From the presented results it seems to me, that the genus is of South origin, and was undivided untill African-Madagascan-Indian plates separated from Antarctica-Australian-South American plate, which gives the perfect match to the molecular phylogeography of the genus. It is relatively easy to find corresponding papers and cite them and discuss the potential routes of divergence and migration. In this respect some more discussion on the potential habitat of divergence would be also appriciated.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I would also recommend transfer of detailed list of morphological traits studied to Supplementary Files. They are very important but very long, being only specialists intrested in, and for general public they are of lesser importance. I would keep the table with features in the text, just to give the reader the opportunity to see the general morphology of the genus. The tables may be described as they are, only with refference to supplementary material for detailed information. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Genetic data of museum specimens allow for inferring evolutionary history of the cosmopolitan genus Sirthenea (Heteroptera: Reduviidae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6640v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 30, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
