Review History for The chemical composition of a new “mica sandwich” foraminiferal species from the East Coast of Korea: Capsammina crassa sp. nov. [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The chemical composition of a new “mica sandwich” foraminiferal species from the East Coast of Korea: Capsammina crassa sp. nov. To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 14th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 23rd, 2019. The first revision was submitted on February 19th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 19th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Feb 19, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Lee and colleagues: Thanks for revising your manuscript based on the minor concerns raised by the reviewers. I now believe that your manuscript is suitable for publication. Congratulations! I look forward to seeing this work in print, and I anticipate it being an important resource for the groups studying monothalamous foraminifera and overall deep ocean microbial diversity. Thanks again for choosing PeerJ to publish such important work. Best, -joe # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Patricia Gandini, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 19, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Jan 23, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Lee and colleagues: Thanks for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. I have now received two independent reviews of your work, and as you will see, both are very favorable. Well done! Nonetheless, both reviewers raised some relatively minor concerns about the research, and areas where the manuscript can be improved. I agree with the reviewers, and thus feel that their concerns should be adequately addressed before moving forward. In particular, please seriously consider deleting the dialogue about P. bowmanni being congeneric or provide a solid argument for this assertion. Therefore, I am recommending that you revise your manuscript accordingly, taking into account all of the issues raised by the reviewers. I do believe that your manuscript will be ready for publication once these issues are addressed. Good luck with your revision, -joe
label_author_1
Michael Kaminski ·
Jan 16, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is clear, concise and a pleasure to read. It's a basic report of a newly-found species, with broader comparisons with the type species of the genus. The description has sufficient detail, and illustrations are excellent, showing the new species in different views.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Fine. No problems here.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I agree that this is likely to be a new species of Capsammina. The Sea of Japan is a semi-isolated body, and endemic species are expected. This is certainly the case with the Miocene, which is host to many endemic species. The genus Capsammina was described as being sandwich-like, comprised of a doughnut-like ring of fine agglutinated grains sandwiched between two mica flakes. Kaminski (2014) placed it in the subfamily Psammosphaerinae, because it was described as possessing no obvious aperture. However, two images in Figure 2 bring this into question. In the side-view image (fig. 2-3) a hole (or at least a dimple) is visible. In top view (Fig. 2-1), the pavement of agglutinated grains (at 12 o'clock) seems to stem from the position of the hole. Agglutinated grains in the doughnut at this location appear to be mostly coarse, with less fine-grained material. Is this the aperture? Or is the connection through the more permeable (?thinner) wall at this location? One thing I do not agree with is the inclusion (albeit speculative) of the species Psammosphaera bowmanni into the genus Capsammina. Capsammina was described as a "Mica Sandwich", i.e. two large plates cemented together by a ring of fine agglutinated material. I don't like the inclusion of P. bowmanni for two reasons: First, P. bowmani uses several flakes of mica to construct a polygonal "box". If we start separating out forms that build their test out of Mica, then we also need to describe a new genus for the species Reophax micaceus. Secondly, in P. bowmanni and in R. micaceus, the mica flakes are cemented at their edges by a matrix of finer agglutinated particles. This is not the case in Capsammina. I know that in their original description of the genus, the authors mentioned that P. bowmanni may belong in Capsammina. No need to repeat this speculation in the current paper.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Good finding! I agree that this is a new species, and the illustrations are excellent. However, The genus Capsammina was described as being sandwich-like, comprised of a doughnut-like ring of fine agglutinated grains sandwiched between two mica flakes. Kaminski (2014) placed it in the subfamily Psammosphaerinae, because it was described as possessing no obvious aperture. However, two images in Figure 2 bring this into question. In the side-view image (fig. 2-3) a hole (or at least a dimple) is visible. In top view (Fig. 2-1), the pavement of agglutinated grains (at 12 o'clock) seems to stem from the position of the hole. Agglutinated grains in the doughnut at this location appear to be mostly coarse, with less fine-grained material. Is this the aperture? Or is the connection through the more permeable (?thinner) wall at this location? Would you like to comment on this observation? One thing I do not agree with is the inclusion (albeit speculative) of the species Psammosphaera bowmanni into the genus Capsammina. Capsammina was described as a "Mica Sandwich", i.e. two large plates cemented together by a ring of fine agglutinated material. By the way, Capsammina may also cement together shards of angular quartz - I have seen agglutinated doughnuts attached to the flat sides of angular quartz shards in my Arctic material. I don't like the inclusion of P. bowmanni for two reasons: First, P. bowmani uses several flakes of mica to construct a polygonal "box". If we start separating out forms that build their test out of Mica, then we also need to describe a new genus for the species Reophax micaceus. Secondly, in P. bowmanni and in R. micaceus, the mica flakes are cemented at their edges by a matrix of finer agglutinated particles. This is not the case in Capsammina. I know that in their original description of the genus, the authors mentioned that P. bowmanni may belong in Capsammina. No need to repeat this speculation in the current paper. Cite this review as
Kaminski MA ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "The chemical composition of a new “mica sandwich” foraminiferal species from the East Coast of Korea: Capsammina crassa sp. nov. (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6642v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Anna Waskowska ·
Jan 23, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Very interesting nauscript, important because of better knowledge of foraminifers and their taxonomic diversity. The species that is described is spectacular because the test structure. The article is very well written, a new species is widely documented and well-illustrated. I have only minor comments that could be taken into consideration. It is worth considering if the abstract requires information about other species of Capsammina (the last two sentences). In conclusions (the last paragraph) give data about biodiversity in the area of Korea peninsula. In principle, this topic is poorly discussed in the content of the manuscript. Cite this review as
Waskowska A ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "The chemical composition of a new “mica sandwich” foraminiferal species from the East Coast of Korea: Capsammina crassa sp. nov. (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6642v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 14, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
