Review History for Maintenance of dominant populations in heavily grazed grassland: Inference from a Stipa breviflora seed germination experiment [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Maintenance of dominant populations in heavily grazed grassland: Inference from a Stipa breviflora seed germination experiment To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 23rd, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 14th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on January 8th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on February 5th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 21st, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Paolo Giordani
·
Feb 21, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I think that your changes regarding the formulation of the hypothesis and the explanation of the underlying mechanisms have met reviewer's requirements. Your manuscript is now suitable for publication on PeerJ. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Ann Hedrick, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 5, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Paolo Giordani
·
Jan 25, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have now reconsidered your revised version of the manuscript, together with rebuttal letter to reviewers' remarks. I appreciate the considerable effort you did for clarifying some points raised by reviewers. I have to say that the framework of your experiment is now more clear to me in light of these replies. I understand that most of information is already in the text, but I suggest to expand it further in order to support the reader who can encounter the same misunderstanding posed by the reviewer. In practice, my suggestion is to add part of your responses to reviewer in the appropriate part of the text (and in an appropriate style). In particular, I am referring to - 1. Response to comment: (There are some flaws in experiment design: , etc. and to - 5. Response to comment: (2) awn have been showed have a large effect on seed germination, etc. While it may result a bit colloquial, I think that this solution may highlight the serious effort you did for planning the experiment and may also support researchers who would like to replicate your design.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 8, 2019
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Paolo Giordani
·
Dec 14, 2018
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Rev#2 made several major remarks that need to be carefully addressed. Some of them concern the request of more details on seed germination and possible related consequences. I particularly agree with the first observation of the reviewer when they say "1) Seeds of Stipa breviflora generally dispersed in June, and germinated in following season, thus it is important to test new harvest seed germination traits rather than 1 year stored seeds, in particularly when you want to infer their ecological significance". I think that this point could be hardly solved without additional research. So please, pay particular attention when rebutting this remark and/or consider to reorganize the results-discussion for minimizing its related issues.
label_author_1
Patricia Susana Cornaglia ·
Nov 15, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article examine survival strategies associated to seed morphological and physiological characteristics in Stipa brevifolia. The objectives and hypothesis are important for the area of research Please, put in chronologic order cites in the manuscript (for example, line 33).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Materials and Methods Fails to detail the conditions of temperature and light in the tests of germination (lines 105-110). Please, explain the concept of “germination rate”, it is not clear if you consider germination percentage or velocity of germination (line 116). I would like to read the previous research that permit me understand the addition of awns to the culture medium for the germinations test (lines 116-126) In addition, you must justified the election of cabbage seed to verify the factors affecting germination.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Results The presentation is clear. Although are confuse the use of abbreviation for name the treatments. Discussion Is correct and the Conclusions are well defined. Please, to correct references (line 197; 205 De Miguel et al; etc) and number of figures (line 225, is Fig 2 or 3). References The references list are incomplete. For example “Liu et al, 2018a” (line 60) did not appears. Furthermore, some cites are erroneous write, because of first appearance the name instead the surname. For example “Martin & Sala 1990 (line 260) instead: Oesterheld & Sala, 1990.
Cite this review as
Cornaglia PS ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Maintenance of dominant populations in heavily grazed grassland: Inference from a Stipa breviflora seed germination experiment (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6654v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 7, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comment.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
There are some flaws in experiment design: 1) Seeds of Stipa breviflora generally dispersed in June, and germinated in following season, thus it is important to test new harvest seed germination traits rather than 1 year stored seeds, in particularly when you want to infer their ecological significance; 2) More detailed information about seed germination needed to be added, e.g. germination temperature, light condition; 3) grass species are generally formed as bunch which may contain seedlings, junveils, and adults together, I am not sure if it is reasonable to count seed age based on the basel diameter.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
This is an interesting subject. However, I am wonder if the current experiment design and results can address the question proposed in this study. 1) firstly, all the conclusion in this study are based on seed germination traits of stored seeds, however, this is not consistent with true condition in the field. 2) awn have been showed have a large effect on seed germination, what is the potential mechanism? It is so hard to convice me that grazing changed the awn chmeical composition and thus affect seed germination. Further, awn of Stipa species is known to affect seed dispersal and its ancor to soil, how this structure affect seed germination in the field? 3) the author claimed that high germination rate is a potential adaptive mechanism to heavy grazing, how? If seeds try to avoid grazing stress, it seems to they need a longer time to escape the current habitat, and delayed germination and seed dormancy seems to be more adaptive.
Comments for the author
No more comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Maintenance of dominant populations in heavily grazed grassland: Inference from a Stipa breviflora seed germination experiment (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6654v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 23, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
