Review History for Mahalanobis distances and ecological niche modelling: correcting a chi-squared probability error [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Mahalanobis distances and ecological niche modelling: correcting a chi-squared probability error To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 9th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 15th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on February 25th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 26th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jason Blackburn
·
Feb 26, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your attention to this revision and well crafted and easy to follow response. This was a job well done and congratulations on a strong manuscript. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Ann Hedrick, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 25, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jason Blackburn
·
Feb 15, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank for a concise and important paper. Two reviewers, and I, agree this paper is important and nearly ready or acceptance. Please note an important comment from Reviewer 2, which I agree with. Resource selection and niche modeling are not synonymous, though many authors lump these together because of similarities in analysis tools. Please work to revise the sentence in the abstract. There are several other simple fixes required from Reviewer 2. The anonymous reviewer has several questions worth addressing in the narrative. I leave it to you to answer those and decide if additional modeling is required or if you can address the comments on performance and sample size. I look forward to your revised submission.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 3, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The author proposes a new approach on the use of mahalanobis distance in ecological niche modeling. Niche modeling has been indicated in conservation strategies and there are many methods available and at the same time many uncertainties. This study is important for reducing uncertainties. However, there is no certainty as to which modeling method is most effective and the method consensus approach has been the most indicated. Therefore I thought that in the introduction of this study lacked tacked mentioning what advantages of malalanobis distance compared to other methods in conservation strategies. Can it be used with species of few occurrences? Can it be used with species of restricted distribution?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental delineation of the article has been understood. However, I suggest performing experiments with different numbers of occurrences to evaluate the performance of the method.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The article is important so that the uncertainties in the forecasts are reduced. However, it is necessary to reinforce the importance of using the distance malanobis method for niche modeling and what its main impacts are when used erroneously.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I enjoyed learning from the article on improving a modeling method. Many details can make a difference in the parameterization of niche modeling. I thought was very valid. However, I think the study would be better with simulations with different amounts of occurrences. I would like to know the consequences for species conservation. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Mahalanobis distances and ecological niche modelling: correcting a chi-squared probability error (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6678v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Jorge Soberon ·
Feb 13, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This paper identifies a pervasive little problem in the use of Mahalanobis distances to characterize the niches of species. The paper is concise and well-written, the bug the author identified is real, and potentially damaging. I believe the paper should be published, almost as it is, with the following minor comments: 1)Figure 2 lacks the first three labels. 2)In the abstract, the author choice of words suggest that niche modeling is equivalent to resource selection, habitat suitability, or distribution modeling. It should be perfectly obvious that modeling a distribution is not synonymous with modeling the selection of resources, for example. Just change the wording so it is clear that Mahalanobis distances are used in all those fields, without implying that the fields are synonymous.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
No comment Cite this review as
Soberon J ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Mahalanobis distances and ecological niche modelling: correcting a chi-squared probability error (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6678v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 9, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
