Review History for Genetic reprogramming of human amniotic cells with episomal vectors: neural rosettes as sentinels in candidate selection for validation assays [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Genetic reprogramming of human amniotic cells with episomal vectors: neural rosettes as sentinels in candidate selection for validation assays To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 30th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 19th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on October 22nd, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on October 23rd, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Abhishek Kumar
·
Oct 23, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Given the positive reviews and the reasonable revisions to address each query, I do not see any reason to delay the paper by sending it back out for additional review. I am happy to accept your manuscript; congratulations.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Oct 22, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Abhishek Kumar
·
Aug 19, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Thank you for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. After careful consideration, we feel that it has merit, but it isn't suitable for publication as it currently stands. Therefore, my decision is "Major Revision". Please address the reviewers' comments.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 18, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article is well designed with experimental work. I recommend to accept this paper with minor revisions.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
well designed with good reporting. 1. In figure 4 D (transcript analysis) number of experiments performed (N?) is missing and error bars? 2. Need to be further data and better explanation of the passage number and nomenclature. 3.As authors claim that there cells are induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), do they have observed differentiation of these cells in other cells types than the "Neural cells" 4. Why the optimal colonies were pooled? 5. Why Rosettes did not appear in backup cultures of clone "iChMRCB1" and where as they appeared in "back up cultures of iChM5A and iChM5B" ? any explanation 6. Better explanation of Figure 3 "Karyotype analysis"
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
acceptable
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Genetic reprogramming of human amniotic cells with episomal vectors: neural rosettes as sentinels in candidate selection for validation assays (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.668v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 19, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this MS, the authors has used “rosettes as sentinels in candidate selection for validation assays” and performed a series of microscopy as well as gene expression studies. The outcome is a generation of two cell lines, namely iCh5A and iChM5B which they made available for others as well (on request). The work is a straight. However, there are few issues that need to be addressed before it can be considered for acceptance. 1. Almost the entire MS lacks the use of negative controls, especially in case of antibody stainings. It is important to demonstrate the specificity of these antibodies also. I could not find the antibody details such as the of the antibody sources, dilutions etc. These information must be added. How can one be sure that these staining’s are specific? 2. It is very difficult to comment on the level of expression based on the antibody staining. 3. Authors use transfection and efficiency is mentioned as low. Under these condition, there will be a lot of non-transformed cells. Authors must clarify how they select the transfected one.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Need to include positive and negative controls where applicable. Specificity of the antibodies need to be included.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
From the MS, it is not very clear how this cell lines and the findings will help further research. Authors must add these in the discussion section. Also whether the reproducibility of such key findings hold true in all conditions and cases, need to be discussed. May be formation of rosettes as sentinels in candidate selection for validation assays is not universal in nature. This needs to be discussed. Are these cell lines are from Male or from female? This is relevant as karyotyping was done. It will be better if the authors mark the individual chromosomes also. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Genetic reprogramming of human amniotic cells with episomal vectors: neural rosettes as sentinels in candidate selection for validation assays (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.668v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 30, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
