Review History for Optimization of extraction conditions and determination of purine content in marine fish during boiling [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Optimization of extraction conditions and determination of purine content in marine fish during boiling To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 7th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 4th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on February 23rd, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 27th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mohamed Farag
·
Feb 27, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have satisfactory addressed reviewer comments # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Pedro Silva, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 23, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mohamed Farag
·
Jan 4, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
While the reviewers find some merit in the paper, they raised serious issues in method optimization especially reviewer 2 and several more parameters need be presented to confirm method validness for quantification of purines which the authors need to present in their revised version
label_author_1
Ali Yehia ·
Jan 3, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
-Some comments are highlighted in PDF file include text editing and reference details. -Sample pretreatment (line 97) The authors should state that treatments have been done separately to each edible part of fish samples. -Extraction rate on axes (figure 2 for example) is defined by (%). I think its is not rate, it is extraction percent since rates literally are related to time. -In tables (1 and 2); Factors' levels should be presented in actual values instead of coded levels for clarity. also footnotes should be shortened and preferably clarified in text.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
-Why 90 degree is used for temperature levels in PCA optimization (line 183) although it showed low extraction% in the prior screening (same for 50 degree level in mixed-acid method). I suggested the levels of this factor should be 70,75 and 80 degrees for PCA and start with 70 degree in mixed-acid to have equal intervals. Also the intermediate level of liquid-solid should be 70:1 (D2) in the same optimization to have a regular intervals between levels. In my opinion, as long as temperature does not greatly affect the extraction % compared to other factors in screening, it should not be included the the design so the number of samples in the design is efficiently reduced. -Justification of five level design for mixed-acid procedure optimization should be provided.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
-Is the used HPLC reported before. If yes, reference should be provided and no need for method validation. If the method not reported before, so the author should put some emphases on optimizing the chromatographic conditions especially changes in mobile phase composition as the separated four components (Figure 2) showed four fairly resolved peaks after a waste of running time (5 min). In this case a complete validation according to compendial guid lines should be provided plus a calculated system suitability parameters such as peak resolution, symmetry and column selectivity. -Line 152, LOD should be calculated based on signal to noise ration or from calibration graph. The authors stated that "LOD was determined using standard solutions". The authors should provide more details about the used concentrations also justify the method used according to official reference. -Line 156, to determine the % recovery of the method; actually there is nor % recovery for a method, it is for standard or sample solutions. Also how standards were added 0.5, 1 and 2 times the amount found in samples although samples concentration literally are unknown. -Terms in equation (line 160) should be clarified. I see content added (presumably standard) is the denominator.. assuming that is the recovery for standard added not for the sample.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript discussed important and interesting topic for purine analysis in marine fish matrix. The manuscript is well written and clearly presented. However some comments are listed that may improve the quality of the work. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Yehia A ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Optimization of extraction conditions and determination of purine content in marine fish during boiling (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6690v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 3, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1. My major concern is regarding the optimization of the purines extraction methods, the authors choose to change one factor while keeping the other factors constant then used an orthogonal design to find the optimum parameters. This design does not allow the study of the interaction between the factors or the quadratic terms. Why the authors did not use a factorial design for screening such as Plackett-Burman designs. Then a central composite design for generating a statistically significant and optimum design that takes into account all the possible terms. 2. With regards to the HPLC method used for determination of purines, there was not any discussion of how this method was developed for example how the authors choose the mobile phase used during the separation process, what is the pka of the studied purines. Moreover, the authors did not even mention the final pH of the mobile phase which is a crucial parameter in the ionization and the separation of the studied compounds.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors should calculate the system suitability parameters regarding the HPLC method, different parameters should be calculated and addressed including, resolution, tailing factor, number of theoretical plates and retention factor. The authors may refer to the USP guidelines for the calculation of these parameters. Moreover, I see no baseline separation between Adenine and Guanine in Fig.1. Finally, the robustness of the method should be assesed
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Optimization of extraction conditions and determination of purine content in marine fish during boiling (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6690v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 7, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
