Review History for Whose name is it anyway? Varying patterns of possessive usage in eponymous neurodegenerative diseases [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Whose name is it anyway? Varying patterns of possessive usage in eponymous neurodegenerative diseases To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 5th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 10th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on March 22nd, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 24th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Frederick Lepore
·
Mar 24, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The minor revisions suggested by one referee have been nicely addressed. My sincere hope is that scientific editors will take note of this elegant little study and avoid imposition of stylistic "one size fits all" rules for eponym usage.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 22, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Frederick Lepore
·
Mar 10, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
As a clinician, I find that making a diagnosis of paralysis agitans is fairly straightforward but the eponymic designation (Parkinson's or Parkinson disease) is not. The authors nicely demonstrate that there is no prevailing consensus for the 6 eponymous diseases which they have studied. Nor is there a compelling philological rule for naming scientific discoveries. The surname Parkinson has been associated with scientific findings other than the "Shaking Palsy" such as (Dwight) Parkinson's Triangle (in the cavernous sinus) and (C. Northcote) Parkinson's Law ("work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion'). Usage of the possessive eponym seems to prevail in these realms of anatomy and economics but most likely reflects the caprices of usage rather than any principles of philology. This succinct paper nicely shows that eponymous nosology is a social (and not rigorously scientific) construct. And that's helpful information when I'm confronted with the Parkinson/Parkinson's option. Please address the reviewer's 5 comments/queries. Also consider using the graph with raw data points for Figure 1.
label_author_1
Kevin Black ·
Mar 9, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors could improve the introduction by adding a sentence such as "Some prominent journals have a stated policy on this question; e.g. Neurology, Brain, ... require the name without the 's." or whatever is actually the case. They may also consider adding a reference to a book of eponyms, or to the ironically eponymous Stigler's law: "No scientific discovery is named after its original discoverer". These comments are meant as suggestions, not requirements.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Technically it could be observed that the authors do not formally test for differences between diseases in the time curves plotted in the Figure. Nevertheless, for this article, the primary conclusions are limited, and the sample sizes are large, and the results are rather obvious, so I believe the conclusions are defensible without such a statistical test.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a delightful article, short and to the point, with data to shed light on a topic that, if not of crucial significance, is at least of great interest to clinicians and researchers in neurology and psychiatry. Cite this review as
Black KJ ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Whose name is it anyway? Varying patterns of possessive usage in eponymous neurodegenerative diseases (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.67v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 7, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
ok
Experimental design
label_ed_2
ok
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
ok
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is an excellent paper on a quirky topic. I would definitely recommend publication with only minor revisions and no need for me to re-review. Items for the authors to consider: 1. They may consider also looking at article abstracts and article key words in addition to titles. 2. Did they restrict this to English language only? 3. Consider stratifying by type of paper: review, original article, case report. 4. It may be interesting to report the results for the 5 - 10 highest impact journals, to see whether they are traditionalists or not. 5. "fewer than 3 per second" or "less than 3 per second"? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Whose name is it anyway? Varying patterns of possessive usage in eponymous neurodegenerative diseases (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.67v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 5, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
