Review History for No association of COMT with insight problem solving in Chinese college students [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History No association of COMT with insight problem solving in Chinese college students To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 5th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 9th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on March 7th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 11th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Stefano Ferraina
·
Mar 11, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for answering in full the comments of both reviewers. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Stephen Macknik, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 7, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Stefano Ferraina
·
Dec 9, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Your manuscript has been evaluated by an expert in Neurogenetics and an expert in Cognitive Neuroscience who, in a complementary way, have provided suggestions and comments that will be useful for the revision of the text. One of the main problems raised is that all sections, in particular both the Introduction and the Methods, require more details. English language usage. I concur with the comments about the need to improve the English language prose. You may need to retain the services of a professional editing consultant, one who has experience with scientific publications; simply asking a colleague with English language proficiency may not suffice.
label_author_1
Maria Teresa Fiorenza ·
Nov 26, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article is well written, although literature references should be implemented to provide adequate field background/context.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
A more careful discussion of data is suggested (see "General comments for the author").
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In this study Yang and coll. attempt to replicate findings of a recent study (Jiang et al., 2015), reporting an association between the COMT polymorphism and insight problem solving performance. After a concise, although thorough description of their results, which show no association, the authors outline some discrepancies between their study and Jiang’s one. General comment Although the functional influence the COMT polymorphism on dopamine clearance at the prefrontal cortex level is likely well known by scientists working in the field of behavioral neuroscience, an overview of this topic is totally missing in the present version of the study. A brief overview of this topic on the introduction section would clarify the biological rationale underpinning the interest of this study (see Chen JS et al., Am. J. Hum. Genet. 2004; Bellgrove MA Exp Brain Res 2005 studies, among others). In addition, although the study investigates a specific behavior, i.e. the insight problem solving, a brief overview of previous studies reporting association/no association between the COMT polymorphism and cognitive abilities, with particular reference to those that also investigated sex-dependent influences, should be briefly summarized in the introduction section (see Mione V. et al., Frontiers in Behav Neurosci 2015; Zabelina D.L. et al., PlosOne 2016; Jaspar M. et al., Cerebral Cortex 2015; White TP et al. Neuropsychopharmacology 2014; Elton A et al., Front. Hum. Neurosci 2017). Of note, the authors of this study do not quote a recent study, which being related to their field of interest they might know, i.e. Han W et al., PeerJ 2018. This implementation would provide the present study a wider audience. Specific issues - It is well known that the last part brain to mature is the prefrontal cortex. The authors should consider the age of participants as a possible cause of the discrepancy between their findings as compared to those of Jiang et al., 2015 study. Indeed, the Mage is significantly different in the two studies: here18.9, SD=0.84 (Jiang et al: Mage=16.54 years, SD = 0.70). Considering that the maturation of the prefrontal cortex networks is a late achievement, being completed at 20-22 years of age, the age factor should be carefully discussed, also within the perspective of future studies. - The authors should comment on the possible influence of the robust imbalance between female (76.7%) and male fractions in the cohort of participants to their study. - The authors should verify that genotype frequencies within male and female groups were consistent with the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium using a specific test. The sentence ‘No significant deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was observed (data not shown)’ is not sufficient. Cite this review as
Fiorenza MT ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "No association of COMT with insight problem solving in Chinese college students (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6755v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 8, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
1. The introduction is meagre to a fault. Only a bare skimming of the theoretical background in the topic. 2. Methodological standards are questionable. (a) Important details about the task are missing. The reader is given no indication as to what the task is and how the fit the criterion of being an insight task. 3. Results: Key results are missing (no information provided on how many problems out of the 10 were classified as familiar problems and how many were classified unfamiliar problems. 5. Several grammatical and semantic errors throughout the manuscript. 6. Several instances of #NULL fields in the data where the behaviour results should be.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
2. Methodological standards are questionable. For instance, at the level of the task alone there are there severe problems: (a) Important details about the task are missing. The reader is given no indication as to what the task is and how the fit the criterion of being an insight task. (b) No non-insight tasks were employed as control tasks. (c) Only 10 problems (which translates to 10 trials) were used as a whole which is very low. 3. Results: Key results are missing (no information provided on how many problems out of the 10 were classified as familiar problems and how many were classified unfamiliar problems. So it is impossible to tell what exactly the accuracy rate reflects (percentage correct on unfamiliar problems). In addition, the accuracy rate was extremely low (e.g., total insight problem solving for all participants around 27.5%). So the data is very sparse and potentially based on only 1-2 correct responses of the participants.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
4. The findings are not congruous with the study their are trying to replicate (Jiang et al.). However, it is questionable whether this can be considered a replication study when not even clear that the same materials were used in this study as in the Jiang study. Certainly this study has less insight problems than the Jiang et al. study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
1. The introduction is meagre to a fault. Only a bare skimming of the theoretical background in the topic. 2. Methodological standards are questionable. For instance, at the level of the task alone there are there severe problems: (a) Important details about the task are missing. The reader is given no indication as to what the task is and how the fit the criterion of being an insight task. (b) No non-insight tasks were employed as control tasks. (c) Only 10 problems (which translates to 10 trials) were used as a whole which is very low. 3. Results: Key results are missing (no information provided on how many problems out of the 10 were classified as familiar problems and how many were classified unfamiliar problems. So it is impossible to tell what exactly the accuracy rate reflects (percentage correct on unfamiliar problems). In addition, the accuracy rate was extremely low (e.g., total insight problem solving for all participants around 27.5%). So the data is very sparse and potentially based on only 1-2 correct responses of the participants. 4. The findings are not congruous with the study their are trying to replicate (Jiang et al.). However, it is questionable whether this can be considered a replication study when not even clear that the same materials were used in this study as in the Jiang study. Certainly this study has less insight problems than the Jiang et al. study. 5. Several grammatical and semantic errors throughout the manuscript. 6. Several instances of #NULL fields in the data where the behavioral results should be. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "No association of COMT with insight problem solving in Chinese college students (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6755v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 5, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
