Review History for Predicting gene expression using DNA methylation in three human populations [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Predicting gene expression using DNA methylation in three human populations To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 19th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on September 3rd, 2018. The first revision was submitted on February 26th, 2019 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 11th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jun Chen
·
Mar 11, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The reviewers are satisfied with the revision. Thanks for the hard work to make such substantial improvement. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Elena Papaleo, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 9, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article structure, figures, tables is professional. Authors indicate that Raw data for perlcode is shared in GITHUB.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Research question is well defined.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I am overall satisfied with author response and revised manuscript. I do not have any further comments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Predicting gene expression using DNA methylation in three human populations (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6757v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 26, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jun Chen
·
Sep 3, 2018
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The reviewers found that the research problem was interesting and well defined. The analyses were deemed to be methodologically and statistically sound. However, both reviewers raised concerns about the conclusion drawn based on only two datasets. More datasets may be needed to validate the method and support the conclusion. The differences from existing tools should also be discussed. Please revise or rebut according to the reviewers’ comments.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Aug 21, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article describes a method of imputing gene expression values from DNA methylation data by using two publically available data sets. However, the prediction R2 for most genes is quite low, which makes this method potentially less useful for eQTL or differential expression studies. However, the paper fits well into the scope of peerj as the quality of the article by describing a methodologically and statistically sound analysis, regardless of subjective determinations of 'impact,' 'novelty' or 'interest'.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
General Points 1.Selection of publically available data: There are many more publically available data sets (e.g. from HapMap LCLs). It would be useful to test the method in more tissues, as well as perhaps having a replication cohort in the same tissue. It’s interesting that one is a very heterogeneous tissue with multiple cells, and one data set is of a purified single cell. 2.There should be at least mention of some previous attempts to impute gene expression data from genotypes, as well as predicting methylation sites from nearby methylation sites. 3.Could the accuracy be further improved by classifying methylation sites by location relative to the gene, position relative to CpG islands, mean methylation, as well as variability in methylation? Especially in the multiple regression model.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
4.The author mentions that “the combination of DNA methylation and other predictors, such as genotype, may be more powerful for this purpose”. Both data sets have genotypes, it would be possible to test this hypothesis (maybe this is outside the scope of the paper) 5.It’s interesting that immune genes come up as being best predicted - is this driven by the PMBC results? One explanation here could also be that there is a bias towards genes relevant to immune cells as there is more variability in these genes (as opposed to other genes completely switched off)
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Specific Comments: Line 51: Could mention CpG islands, shores. While 70% of CpGs are methylated, many of the CpGs are clustered into CpG islands, which are mostly unmethylated. The regions around the CpG islands have been found to have high variability in methylation. Line 69: “They found that the association between gene expression and methylation is not always negative in promoter region or positive in gene body.” Need to mention where this assumption comes from, why was it expected that the gene body methylation would be positively correlated with expression? Could mention this study that look into the causal relationship of DNA methylation with expression https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3673336/ Line 73: “asthma” Line 86: Do you mean “quantile normalized” instead of “quartile normalized”? Line 117: How many samples remain after removing those with missing values? This means that only samples with 100% call rate were kept? Line 125: Is this the RefGene annotation by Illumina? What are the cutoff for considering a probe as belonging to a gene, is there a cis-interval cutoff? Line 138: what are the parameters used in glmnet? Line 142: Have you considered using a completely separate “testing” data set to avoid overfitting? Line 157: Multiple Testing correction? Line 159: I think the GO enrichment studies need to be carried out using a matched permutation test instead of the whole array background (for example like it is implemented in eForge). This is because some of the probes might already be biased to come up in any kind of analysis in the specific cell types, as they have more variation, or a certain context to genes or CpG islands Line 224: Perhaps mention that previously you just considered the R2 in model fitting, without worrying about overfitting to your data sets, so the multiple regression performs best here, whereas the LASSO model is best when considering prediction. Line 282: “the larger genetic effect and larger epigenetic effect” - both are larger than what? Line 283. This is interesting, it seems that the S&C “predictive power” is based around the separation of two distinct clusters. Surprising that there aren’t three cluster based on the three genotypes AA, AB and BB for each SNP - does this happen to for the S&C probes? I could imagine this also happening for some of the probes in “all” as they might have missed some in the Grundberg analysis. Is there a way to quantify how often this clustering phenomenon happens? (e.g. through running a clustering algorithm over all probes). Right now it looks like just four examples were cherry-picked. Line 287: Again, this might not be surprising as the genes associated with GO terms relevant to fat and blood are more likely to be expressed, and thus provide more variability? Line 314: I think a better method might be to compare the R2 in an independent validation set? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Predicting gene expression using DNA methylation in three human populations (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6757v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 22, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The study by Zhong et al is trying to find correlation between gene expression using DNA methylation.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Please provide link to perlscript used in the study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Conclusions are too strong and based on only two studies.
Comments for the author
The study by Zhong et al address role of DNA methylation in predicting gene expression. The manuscript introduction is clear and Figures are relevant. The authors have done commendable job in defining the research question. The major problem is for such a strong conclusion the authors did not provide any validation of their analysis and have only analyzed two study. I think it is very important to combine role of Histone modifications and enhancers/repressors and other gene regulatory mechanisms in addition to DNA methylation for gene expression analysis. 1.The authors use DNA methylation of all CpG sites to predict gene expression. This is obvious since not CpG sites will lie in promoter region. It is known that CpG-dense promoters of actively transcribed genes are never methylated, but reciprocally transcriptionally silent genes do not necessarily carry a methylated promoter. 1.The authors should discuss how MethylXcan is unique from existing softwares, such as FEM, ROADMAP Epigenomics and others. 2.The authors indicate DNA methylation is poor predictor of gene expression but develop MethylXcan program to predict gene xpression using DNA methylation. 3.One of the major problem of their results is lack of validation. Result from cancer genome atlas project indicate correlation between DNA methylation and gene expression (Long et al 2017). To remove any bias the authors should analyze atleast 5-6 other datasets and include the results from those analysis. 4.Although the results described by Zhong et al are very interesting and can have profound impact on epigenetics. The authors should compare correlation between gene expression and DNA methylation at either Promoter region or on total gene body. 5.The authors indicate immune and defense gene show correlation between DNA methylation and gene expression. However there is no information provided about role of Histone modifications, DNA binding elements, transcription factors. The author should discuss how methylation of immune and defense gene is unique and related details in detail. 6.Figure 5 : The axis are not labelled 7.Line 126 Please provide link to perlscript 8.The English language usage and formatting issues in the manuscript. a. Line 93 “Humanmethylation450” b. Line180 “Thereinto” c. Line210 “less than identifies” d.Table 2 legend “andKEGG” e. Figure 5 legend “Examplegenes” f.Figure 4 legend “Comparisonof” g.Figure 2 legend “Comparisonamong” h.Line 100 reference formatting error “background [9]” i.Line 50 “residue(You” j.Line 59 “2013)studied” Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Predicting gene expression using DNA methylation in three human populations (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6757v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 19, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
