Review History for PEST sequences from a cactus dehydrin regulate its proteolytic degradation [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History PEST sequences from a cactus dehydrin regulate its proteolytic degradation To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 21st, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 11th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on March 11th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 19th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Gerard Lazo
·
Mar 19, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All of the suggestions were sufficiently attended to and the manuscript appears ready to be forwarded for publication. Congratulations, please consider this manuscript accepted.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 11, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Gerard Lazo
·
Jan 11, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
In general the manuscript was well written and had significant findings which will be of value to the research community. The reviewers have outlined their concerns which should be easily addressed. I will classify this manuscript as requiring “minor” revisions; however, as pointed out by one reviewer there appears to be an opportunity to expand upon these findings and to provide a broader view of the significance regarding the role of some/all dehydrins. In general, there may be some fine-tuning with some of the sentence structures. A few that I saw are listed here: line 77: “motives” to “motifs”. line 255: “construct is due” to “construct was due”. line 368: “to plant’s ability” to “to the plant’s ability”. line 424: “OpsDHN1 has the ability” to “OpsDHN1 to have the ability”. line 431: “Beet curly top virus” to “Beet Curly Top Virus”. line 434: “the mammal” to “the mammalian”. line 449: “three PEST was” to “three PEST constructs was”. line 458: “suggesting its could regulate” to “suggesting it could regulate”. line 461: “open new scenarios” to “open a new scenario”.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 27, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is clearly and well written overall. However, the writing of “Materials and Methods” session need improve due to the use of non-standard English. For example, “scattered”, “a proportional vermiculite and soil mix”, “after they were…’’ in the paragraph (line 103-105), and “shifted into” in multiple places, were not properly worded. Other comments related to writing: Line 54, “suggest” should be “suggests” Line 56, what is the superscript of “segment6”? Line 56 and 77, “motives” should be “motifs” Line 62, “present” may be changed to “contain”? Line 355 , “represent” should be “represents” Line 361, remove “,” after et al. Line 450, rephrase “ transient tobacco leaves” Line 457, “protein fusion” should be “fusion protein” Line 458, “its” should be “they” Line 636, “plant cell” should be “ plant cells” Table 1, orthologous should be “orthologs”. The title may be changed to “ Distribution of potential PEST sequences in subgroups of DHN orthologs” Legend of Figure 5, “in A. thaliana the pMDC32-GUS…..” should be “ in the A. thaliana pMDC-GUS…..”
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Meet standards. No other comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Figure 6D and 6E, in staining (6D), the “pMDC-GUS::PEST-mut L1 and L2 seem to have high GUS activities than the control pMDC32-GUS L1; however, in the fluorometric assay (6E), the result indicates the opposite, please discuss in the manuscript. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "PEST sequences from a cactus dehydrin regulate its proteolytic degradation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6810v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 1, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Pass.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Pass.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Pass.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The methods are very clearly explained, with credible results shown in the figures and supplemental information..The findings significantly add to the body of knowledge on dehydrins, as noted by the authors addressing an aspect of dehydrins - degradation during stress-recovery - that has received little attention so far. So, PEST sequences seem to be part of the picture. It leaves the reader wondering if/why it is not always part of the picture for every dehydrin, or at least always part of the picture for some specific subset of dehydrins. Perhaps this could be addressed somewhat more in the Discussion. As a routine practice, each DNA construct should be checked by sequencing to make sure that the intended junctions have been made. For some constructs this validation was stated. For most it was not. The authors should insert statements to confirm that all constructs were validated by sequencing. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "PEST sequences from a cactus dehydrin regulate its proteolytic degradation (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6810v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 21, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
