Review History for Characterization of introgression from the teosinte Zea mays ssp. mexicana to Mexican highland maize [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Characterization of introgression from the teosinte Zea mays ssp. mexicana to Mexican highland maize To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 15th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 12th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on March 14th, 2019 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 20th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ivo Feussner
·
Mar 20, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you very much for carefully revising the manuscript. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Gerard Lazo, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 18, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Excellent
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Solid,, and with acknowledged challenges that are clearly described.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Well done and clear.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I felt like the revisions were done well. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Characterization of introgression from the teosinte Zea mays ssp. mexicana to Mexican highland maize (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6815v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 14, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ivo Feussner
·
Feb 12, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please consider to greatly shorten this paper and minimize your speculations. In addition, you should take into account the advice from reviewer #2 about a de novo assembly of the reads that don't map, to identify genes in the teosinte parent that are missing from the reference. If you think this is beyond the scope of this manuscript, you should at least discuss that this option is missing here.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 31, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall, this manuscript reads like a Master’s thesis that was re-worked into a manuscript. Unfortunately, the manuscript is overly long making it difficult to distill the key data and interpretation from the manuscript. The manuscript could easily be trimmed to 1/3rd of its length and be stronger. Page 24 has different line #’s Throughout manuscript: ‘where’ to ‘were’ ‘form’ to ‘from’
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I am concerned there are a lot of interpretations from what is really a small number of indivduals. The authors should comment on the power to make interpretations, and the significance of these interpretations, with data from so few indivdiduals. Line 29: I think it is a misnomer to use the term ‘novel whole-genome sequence data’ Line 154: The authors used v3 of the B73 genome. The current version is v4. I am sure this is because they started the work before v4 was officially available. I am fine with this but the authors should make a note as to why they used v3. Line 171: The authors refer to Table S17. I did not have the supplemental tables. And these should be cited in order Line 192-203: The number of markers for the map seems exceptional low. This is why the QTLs are so large. Can the authors comment on this? Line 352: It is highly problematic to project SNPs onto a reference genome annotation as shown in Arabidopsis. Thus, the authors should put their SnpEff data in that context. My guess is that a lot of these are artifacts and if they had annotation of their query genomes, then an alternative splice form will alleviate the SNP.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
While the authors findings are technically sound, the low power of the entire study warrants text to let the reader know this.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Characterization of introgression from the teosinte Zea mays ssp. mexicana to Mexican highland maize (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6815v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 11, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This is all quite well done - the writing is clear, references are appropriate, and results are well explained.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
There are important and clear research goals, and most of the approaches are well carried out. My only concern is that the analysis is mainly focused on SNPs called against the reference genome. Additional analysis that would be useful would be to identify any sequences where introgression has lead to copy number variation or (especially) novel genes introgressed. With increasing appreciation for the importance of gene sequences that are missing from the reference genome, I would advocate a "pan genome" style approach to understand this aspect of introgression better. There are various approaches, but the easiest would simply be to de novo assemble the reads that don't map, to identify genes in the teosinte parent that are missing from the reference. Ideally, the mapping population could be used to place some/all of these sequences onto chromosomes as well, if there are obvious protein-coding or otherwise likely functional genes. This may be beyond the scope of this current paper, but it should at least be acknowledged that a SNP based approach might be missing something here, and this should be investigated as much as possible here and/or in other papers. At the least, it would be useful to look at copy number variation between the parents based on mapping to the reference genome, and to identify if any regions that were introgressed would lead to gene deletion / duplication, as well as identifying the gene sequences that are novel in the teosente parent even if they can't be placed easily.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Findings are well stated and clear. My only additional suggestion is that there are many important traits that were not measured, and it is likely that because of this key phenotypes were missed. Also, as briefly mentioned, there are many traits that could be expressed differently in the highland environment. It would be ideal to re-do the mapping in the highland environment, obviously for a future paper no this one. IF this is done, I would expect that biotic interactions as well as abiotic factors are important, and lead to higher fitness (yield) in the highlands with certain introgressions. There are likely insects, pathogens, and other organisms that differ substantially between these environments, and could play an important role. For instance, in sunflower it was found that resistance to local herbivores was driving introgression at key genomic regions during a natural range expansion into texas, leading to the origin of the subspecies H. annuus texanus Quantitative trait locus mapping identifies candidate alleles involved in adaptive introgression and range expansion in a wild sunflower KD Whitney et al. Molecular ecology 24 (9), 2194-2211
Comments for the author
This is a nice paper, and adds important new understanding to how Maize and Teosinte have interacted in the areas where they coexist, and how selection may have acted / be acting. The fact that phenotypes associated with this introgression have not yet been identified is not too surprising, since it may be something you didn't measure, as discussed above, or that is only expressed in the highland environment. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Characterization of introgression from the teosinte Zea mays ssp. mexicana to Mexican highland maize (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6815v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 15, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
