Review History for Modulation of stress response and productive performance of Litopenaeus vannamei through diet [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Modulation of stress response and productive performance of Litopenaeus vannamei through diet To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 26th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 1st, 2019. The first revision was submitted on March 22nd, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 26th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Valery Forbes
·
Mar 26, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the reviewers' comments, which I believe have improved the manuscript considerably. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Rob Toonen, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 22, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Valery Forbes
·
Feb 1, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please provide a point-by-point response to each of the reviewers' comments, noting in particular reviewer 1's concerns about lack of detail provided and reviewer 2's concerns regarding the statistical analyses.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 26, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This Manuscript needs to be improved before publication: some suggestions are listed below There is no information in introduction about type of diet (composition) which has already evaluated on shrimp cultured in or submitted to low salinity condition. This would be useful to introduce the choice of experimental diet composition used in this study. There is also no mention of probiotic interest in diet to face stressful conditions. The use of “global means” all along the “Result” part does not facilitate the comprehension. The readers have to calculate all cited values (as these mean values are not include in the corresponding tables) to understand what the authors mean.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Some important details on the experimental conditions are missing in the text (the supplementary data were useful to find these missing details in manuscript): #Line 82-92: Initial shrimp weight at the beginning of differentiate feeding period; The number of replicate per treatment (salinity and diet); the number of shrimp used (total and per treatment) #Line 101-106 and Table 1: More details on diets composition and ingredients are required : origin and proportion of carbohydrates, origin and concentration of probiotic and yeast (commercial or lab strain, genre and species if known), different mix composition). The diet formulae are not complete, sum of ingredients cited below 100%. What was the percentage of free amino acids in diets? #Line 128-131: How long after stress, are the shrimp harvested and sampled?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors showed that an adapted diet improve survival, protein conversion rate and productive performance when cultured at 6psu. The shrimp capacity to face stressful condition is also improved by this adapted nutrition: the shrimp energy status is improved after 42 days of culture whatever the salinity Parts of "Discussion" have to be reviewed : #Line 325-352: This part of the discussion on the CBH and its impact on productivity is a bit long, while there is no information on CBH level in the experimental diet of this study. This part should be reduced if additional data on the diet formula is not added in Material and Methods (cf previous comment). #Line 352-354 : Even if « Probiotic » is a small part of the experimental diet, it would be interesting to specify in the Mat & Max, what type of bacteria and yeasts were added and for which purpose. Especially if these microorganisms could have contributed to assimilate CBH. Data about survival to additionals acutes stresses (escape and hypoxia) could complete interestingly the results obtained in this study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Pay attention: "psu" in not written correctly in different places; “37 psu” is sometimes replaced by “35 psu” Line 167: “growth of” can be deleted Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Modulation of stress response and productive performance of Litopenaeus vannamei through diet (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6850v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 31, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The present manuscript is well structured, the objective is clear, English is well written, the bibliography is adequate, I suggest that some of the tables could be transformed into a figure to facilitate the visualization of the results.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The present research is original because it integrates the effect of environmental stressors with diet and in response it measures several biochemical and aquacultural parameters. The research question is well defined. The methodology used is described in sufficient detail and can be replicated. Also in the part and results it is suggested to group them as they are too long and it is tedious to follow them.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The literature cited is considerad that adequate and covers the subject treated. The impact of this research is related to shrimp management from the aquuacultural point of view by the focus of the evaluated parameters. In the part of the statistical analysis I suggest the authors use the arcsine transformation in the parameters that they describe and that are in percentages because to apply the ANOVA in that type of data they must be transformed by that function since otherwise they would be violated the assumptions with which the statistical test works. The conclusions are considered adequate in relation to the results obtained
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In the part of the statistical analysis I suggest the authors use the arcsine transformation in the parameters that they describe and that are in percentages because to apply the ANOVA in that type of data they must be transformed by that function since otherwise they would be violated the assumptions with which the statistical test works. Also in the part of results it is suggested to group them because as they are presented they are too long and sometimes repetitive. On line 330 it is suggested to change the prayer to. In a recent study Wang et al (2015) used isoenergetics diets with different protein: CBH ratios of 26-30%: 30-14% were compared with the highest growth at 3 psu was observed with a diet consisting of 19% CBH and 34% protein. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Modulation of stress response and productive performance of Litopenaeus vannamei through diet (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6850v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 26, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
