Review History for Missing checkerboards? An absence of competitive signal in Alnus-associated ectomycorrhizal fungal communities [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Missing checkerboards? An absence of competitive signal in Alnus -associated ectomycorrhizal fungal communities To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 7th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 13th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on November 15th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 15th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Francis Martin
·
Nov 15, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Peter, Thanks for the revised version of your ms. I am happy to tell you that it is provisionally accepted for publication in PeerJ. I have forwarded my recommendation for publication to the PeerJ staff and they will be in touch shortly to move forward with publication. BTW, I've spotted a typo in your last ms. version: 'by arbsucular mycorrhizal plants' should read 'by arbuscular mycorrhizal plants'.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 15, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Francis Martin
·
Nov 13, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Peter, Referees and I are very pleased with your revisions and responses, and am thus happy to recommend publication of your revised manuscript. Referee #1 however suggested a few minor revisions (see below) that you should take into account in your final version. Referee #2 found one reference that needs to be edited.. None of the comments should be too difficult to deal with. If you would upload the revised version in the coming days, I will check it over and let you know my final decision. I am hopeful it will not require further peer review. I look forward to receiving your revised version. Cheers - Francis
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 10, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
It is good to see that the authors decided not to "try to hide the issues with our data with some clever bioinformatics binning or forceful 'trust-me' arguments". Unfortunately, that statement makes one wonder how often this is being done. The title merits a question mark because the results are doubly atypical - regarding co-occurrence and autocorrelation. Exceptional results call for exceptionally strong evidence, which this article does not present due to a variety of methodological uncertainties and caveats that the authors acknowledge.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Corrections: Abstract: ….and DNA sequence abundance… ….from root tips or fungal in-growth bags in three A. rubra plantation plots at a site in Oregon, USA, and identified… Introduction: Lilleskov et al. 2004 merits being mentioned here. 98. …were colonized by arbuscular… 143. root tips 178. rarefaction Discussion: Mention that sampling roots from the same plot as where the bags were buried would have been preferable. Figure 1. What is the evidence that UnculturedFungus7 is ECM? Table S2. The naming of all taxa needs to be checked and corrected when necessary. For example, an OTU 97% similar to Amphinema is named UnculturedFungus4, an OTU 96.5% similar to Piloderma is named Herpothichiellaceae1 (sic), etc. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Missing checkerboards? An absence of competitive signal in Alnus-associated ectomycorrhizal fungal communities (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.686v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Monique Gardes ·
Nov 12, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I found one reference that still needs to be corrected. The correct title of the paper of Walker et al. 2014 is "....in a global tripartite symbiosis" (not in a tri-partite symbiosis" as it is written), please change it.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors have improved significantly the quality of the manuscript. All my major concerns have been addressed. Cite this review as
Gardes M ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Missing checkerboards? An absence of competitive signal in Alnus-associated ectomycorrhizal fungal communities (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.686v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 7, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
