Review History for Endothelial cell-initiated extravasation of cancer cells visualized in zebrafish [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Endothelial cell-initiated extravasation of cancer cells visualized in zebrafish To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 13th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 1st, 2014. The first revision was submitted on November 11th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 17th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Cheorl-Ho Kim
·
Nov 17, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The Zebrafish materials the authors have made and evidenced should be avaliable for the request in future,as they have deposited in the HU.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 11, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Cheorl-Ho Kim
·
Oct 1, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The study is a scientific argument on the conventionally well reported cancer cell extravasation, as the authors call "endothelial covering-type extravasation of cancer cells". Please address the comments of the reviewers in your revision.
label_author_1
Francesco Pezzella ·
Sep 19, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is very good and properly described.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The finding are very well supported and the iconography is excellent!
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I agree that the author have demonstrated that endothelia covering-type extravasation happens in absence of VEGF and therefore is likely to be one of the factors allowing tumour progression under anti VEGf treatment. I also agree that they have demonstrated that more cells extravasate. I am only doubtful whether this account for a more aggressive tumour as, after all, the invasion type is instead absent absent. Perhaps the author could briefly comment on this issue instead of concluding that could explain a more aggressive behaviour. Cite this review as
Pezzella F ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Endothelial cell-initiated extravasation of cancer cells visualized in zebrafish (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.688v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Sudhakar Chintharlapalli ·
Sep 27, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The paper by Kanada et al., is a very well written paper addressing some important concerns/questions in the field of angiogenesis. The authors have shown that there are 2 types of extravasation using zebrafish models: endothelial covering type extravasation and invasion type extravasation. The authors have used siRNA approach and therapeutic approach to address the role of VEGF in metastasis. Overall the experiments are very convincing and the data supports the conclusions. Below are some of the concerns that needs to be addressed 1.The authors state that cell morphology and motility are dependent on VEGF involving intracellular signaling. Do we know how much VEGF is in the supernatant that has been added? Can we titrate different amounts of VEGF exogenously to know if it is for sure intracellular mediated? 2.With regards to the siRNA experiments the authors claim that inspite of severe inhibition of cancer cell invasion VEGF-depleted cells extravasated like normal within 60 hr. Since these are siRNA experiments, do we know how long the RNA knock down is maintained in these cells? The knock down could be transient and that is why you might see invasion at 60hr. In addition can authors use an anti-VEGF antibody to address this concern? 3.The authors also claim that extravasation is provoked by mass of cancer cells and not by single cells. There is not sufficient evidence in the paper to come to this conclusion. Have you tried using other cells or single suspension cells to confirm this? In addition how to NIH3T3 cells behave, do they form clumps too? 4.Sunitinib is sometimes referred as VEGF-targeted inhibitor; I would recommend addressing it as a multi targeted kinase inhibitor as there are many targets that Sunitinib hits. In addition the differences we see with Sunitinib could be its effects on PDGFRb and other targets it hits. This needs to be explicitly stated. 5.Anti-VEGF inhibitor instead of Sunitinib to address the question of role of VEGF in metastasis would be ideal 6.The lines 266-281 talk about the concept of VEGF dependent and independent cells. The way that authors talk, it sounds like it is a novel observation. This has been reported several times and they are usually described as tip and stalk cells. This has to be clarified. Cite this review as
Chintharlapalli S ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Endothelial cell-initiated extravasation of cancer cells visualized in zebrafish (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.688v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 13, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
