Review History for The highly toxic and cryptogenic clinging jellyfish Gonionemus sp. (Hydrozoa, Limnomedusae) on the Swedish west coast [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The highly toxic and cryptogenic clinging jellyfish Gonionemus sp. (Hydrozoa, Limnomedusae) on the Swedish west coast To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 18th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 22nd, 2019. The first revision was submitted on March 20th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on March 30th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 1st, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
James Reimer
·
Apr 1, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the final English edits; your work is now ready to be moved into production. Congratulations! # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Robert Toonen, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 30, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.2
James Reimer
·
Mar 21, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have gone over the paper myself, and find you have addressed all the scientific points well. I have noted some small English mistakes, and attach them here in a MSWord file. Please check these edits - I imagine this will be easy, and I will soon be able to accept this work. I look forward to seeing your resubmission.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 20, 2019
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Reimer
·
Feb 22, 2019
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
I have heard back from two reviewers, both of whom were very positive about your submission. Both reviewers have also provided constructive comments, none of them major, but which will, in my opinion, help make you manuscript better. Please consider their comments. As well, reviewer 1 notes that you can contact them should you need some references they mentioned in their review. I look forward to seeing a revised version.
label_author_1
Sho Toshino ·
Feb 5, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Some parts are not enough citations.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Sampling data is not enough for estimate growth rate of Gonionemus sp.. If possible, the authors should add more data during all months when medusae appear. And please add more detail of culturing methods (sizes of tanks, feeding frequency).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors should discuss why Gonionemus sp. appeared in Swedish waters. Water temperature is one of important trigger for medusa budding. See Kakinuma (1971).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors examined medusa growth rate and identified using morphology and molecular method with beautiful photos. I think the paper will be acceptable after minor revision but please consider growth rate and condition of medusa budding. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Toshino S ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "The highly toxic and cryptogenic clinging jellyfish Gonionemus sp. (Hydrozoa, Limnomedusae) on the Swedish west coast (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6883v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 21, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is an important contribution to the taxonomy, biogeography and the knowledge of sting-associated records of hydromedusae in general, and the genus Gonionemus in particular. The text is well written, concise and unambiguous, and the English is clear. The question is clear and well contextualized, especially considering the previous paper by Govindarajan et al. (2017), which have discussed the possible origins and scenarios of invasions of lineages within Gonionemus. The authors present detailed descriptions with relevant information on morphology and cnidome, which is accompanied by high quality, exceptionally clear figures. Methods are well-described and sufficient to address the question proposed. Raw data on COI haplotype sequences was supplied.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
My only concern here is related to the absence of Table 1, which was not supplied with the submission. I am not sure if it was my mistake (I couldn’t find it), but a Table is cited in line 140. I believe it is very important that the authors include a Table describing the provenance of the material used in the analysis, identifying the ones used for morphological description, and the ones from which COI sequences were obtain. Additionally, I believe it is very important that the authors identify the haplotypes in this table, to make it easier for the reader to understand Figure 6 and the discussion that is related to it. Without a reference of a table with the description of the material, their locality and haplotype designation, it is very difficult to follow the discussion provided by the authors. I also suggest that the authors include the same information about the sequences from GenBank and from Govindarajan et al. (2017).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Comments for the author
Another suggestion I have is related to the identification of the species Gonionemus sp. The authors provide such a detailed morphological description, with sequences from several localities, that I was wondering if it wouldn’t be possible to improve their contribution to the taxonomy and systematics of this group. Is it still not possible to refer to this species as G. murbachii? Or at least provide a more solid delimitation for this lineage? In my opinion, a discussion concerning the morphological diagnostic characters of the species and their relationship with other closely related species would be relevant. Additional minor comments: - Please correct the year of the paper Govindarajan et al. in the references section. - Table 1 was cited in line 140 but was not provided with the submission. - Please remove the additional tentacle in line 3 of the legend of Figure 3. - Please include a comma after ric and before ring canal in the legend of Figure 3. - In the legend of figure 3 the radial canal is referred as rac but in the figure it is referred as ra. - Line 149: I suggest the authors replace the word the for in - Lines 180-181: the authors describe the male gonad indicating Figures 3B and 3D, but in these figures, the gonads are identified as developing gonads (gd), and not as male gonads. I believe this needs more clarity. - Legend of Supplementary Figure 6: remove the word in before A,B in line 4. - Please exclude the word with in line 262. - Line 291: this sentence is not entirely clear and needs modification. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "The highly toxic and cryptogenic clinging jellyfish Gonionemus sp. (Hydrozoa, Limnomedusae) on the Swedish west coast (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6883v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 18, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
