Review History for Dietary supplementation of black soldier fly (Hermetica illucens) meal modulates gut microbiota, innate immune response and health status of marron (Cherax cainii, Austin 2002) fed poultry-by-product and fishmeal based diets [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Dietary supplementation of black soldier fly ( Hermetica illucens) meal modulates gut microbiota, innate immune response and health status of marron ( Cherax cainii , Austin 2002) fed poultry-by-product and fishmeal based diets To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 18th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 29th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on March 26th, 2019 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 2nd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Konstantinos Kormas
·
Apr 2, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for efficiently revising your manuscript. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by James Reimer, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 1, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Foysal et al. replied to my major comments regarding experimental design. Also relevant references were added accordingly.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors made their methods more clear with the new additions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data is sufficient now with the changes authors did.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Dietary supplementation of black soldier fly (Hermetica illucens) meal modulates gut microbiota, innate immune response and health status of marron (Cherax cainii, Austin 2002) fed poultry-by-product and fishmeal based diets (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6891v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 26, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Konstantinos Kormas
·
Jan 29, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please provide a point-by-point rebutal letter for all the reviewers' comments, along with your revised manuscript.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 11, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The MS conforms to the standard of scientific reporting with clear language, structure, figures and tables, fully supporting the hypothesis made with relevant results and discussion.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The present experiment tries to generate information on marrons which are data deficient commercial species. At the same time the present paper explore the potential of alternate animal protein sources to replace fish meal in fish feed. Experimental design has been well planned and carried out with ethical standard. The methods have been described clearly for to replicate. However another feed (treatment) comprising FM+PBM+BSF could have made interesting observations. Authors may also cite reasons why BSF has not been included beyond 12% in the diet.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data presented are robust and statistically sound to represent the results.However few more observations are made here. Rimoldi et al 2018 extracted DNA from faecal matter of the sampled fish, to study the microbial communities. In this experiment DNA was extracted from hindgut of the shellfish marrons. So how does it compare or how much of variation you may speculate in the gut microbial diversity. It is desirable to discuss with more references related to shellfish like comparing gut microbiota of shellfish like L vannamei in which lot of work have been done. The paper should shed some more light on nutritive values of BSF to correlate with the results. Line 342 may be corrected by giving proper references or (53,54) may be removed
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
It is a very well designed and elaborate work addressing many issues pertaining to sustainable aquaculture. Further studies may explore the large scale production potential of alternate protein sources to make commercially viable option to replace fishmeal in aquafeeds. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Dietary supplementation of black soldier fly (Hermetica illucens) meal modulates gut microbiota, innate immune response and health status of marron (Cherax cainii, Austin 2002) fed poultry-by-product and fishmeal based diets (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6891v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 17, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
In their paper entitled Dietary supplementation of alternative protein sources modulate health status, gut microbiota and innate immune response of marron (Cherax cainii, Austin 2002), Foysal et al. tried to evaluate the effects of insect meal as a supplementary diet to fishmeal and poultry meal on the bacterial communtities of marron freshwater crayfish. Apart from bacterial communities diversity studied with illumine, growth indices were calculated as well as other factors such as lysozyme activity and total haemocyte counts, and the presence and abundance of cytocine genes. Overall the study is interesting and well described. The English language used is clear although some mistakes are observed (e.g. genus, plural genera). Introduction is well structured with sufficient references and raw data are supplied.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research question is well defined and the methods are explicitly explained. However the design lacks some information and can be misleading. For example nowhere is written how many samples (guts) were used for each treatment and method. I suppose that you used 16 samples for each treatment but as I also implied from your figures you used only three samples/ treatment for the 16S analysis (Figure 1). Am I wrong? Again this is nowhere mentioned in the text and should be added somewhere.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Results are well explained and supported by statistical analysis, however in some cases they are hard to understand because of the bad description of samples (How many for what method?). I would suggest the authors to add one more table or provide more information in the manuscript. The discussion for Bacterial taxonomy is very interesting, but I would suggest you add some more citations/information for the very interesting group of Ca. Bacilloplasma (Tennericutes) that is solely detected in animals gut systems. There are several citations (Wang et al. 2004,Kostanjsek et al. 2007, Meziti et al. 2010) for closely related species that show the importance of this group in gut systems and try to connect it with feeding.
Comments for the author
As you will see I recommend the article for major revision since I believe that the addition of a better explanation for samples handling would make your article easier to read. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Dietary supplementation of black soldier fly (Hermetica illucens) meal modulates gut microbiota, innate immune response and health status of marron (Cherax cainii, Austin 2002) fed poultry-by-product and fishmeal based diets (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6891v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 18, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
