Review History for Proteomics and bioinformatics analysis reveal potential roles of cadmium-binding proteins in cadmium tolerance and accumulation of Enterobacter cloacae [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Proteomics and bioinformatics analysis reveal potential roles of cadmium-binding proteins in cadmium tolerance and accumulation of Enterobacter cloacae To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 26th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 18th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on April 3rd, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 3rd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Apr 3, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All critical points were adequately addressed and the manuscript was amended accordingly. Therefore, revised version is acceptable in its current form. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Valeria Souza, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 3, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Mar 18, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address all critiques of both reviewers and revise your manuscript accordingly.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 14, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In this manuscript, the authors report the potential cadmium-binding proteins in Enterobacter cloacae, a gram-negative bacteria. The manuscript is well-written and the authors provide sufficient background information and discussed the results clearly for the understanding to broad interest readers.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors provide a complete detail description of the methods in the manuscript.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Few Minor issues: 1. The title of the manuscript is too long. It should have a clear, precise scientific meaning. 2. Change "folds" to "fold" in the manuscript. 3. I suggest improving the introduction section; should be more clear. Some sentences in the introduction section seem to be incomplete. 3. Re-write the line 168-171: not clear. 4. Explain in detail the method used for the estimation of cadmium accumulation in the bacterial as mentioned in line 183-184. 5. Line204: Change ' labeling' to 'labeled'. 6. In Figure 4 legend, the % of protein gel written is 12% whereas in the text it is mentioned as 12.5%. Write the correct % of gel used. 7. The authors mentioned all the 80 proteins spots in Table 3. I suggest to include a graph also showing the number of the protein identified on y-axis versus protein family on x-axis for easy understanding of the result. 8. Similarly, include a graph showing the max fold change between control and cadmium-treated group for qRT-PCR result as shown in Table 6. 9. Re-write the line 486-488; not clear. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Proteomics and bioinformatics analysis reveal potential roles of cadmium-binding proteins in cadmium tolerance and accumulation of Enterobacter cloacae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6904v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 18, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors Chuanboob et al. have presented a detailed study of cadmium-binding proteins involved in inducing cadmium tolerance in different species of Enterobacter cloacae isolated from industrial and agricultural sites around central Thailand. The study is well-designed, and the authors have presented conclusive results corroborating their claims. The manuscript is easy to follow with overall correct use of language and grammar. The manuscript is structured as per PeerJ requirements and the authors have presented relevant and adequate background information and references to set up their research question.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The figures and tables presented corroborate the conclusion made by the authors. The reviewer is thankful to the authors for making the necessary raw data available. The authors have following few suggestions that will improve the quality of manuscript 1.The figures are of high quality, easy to follow, and have the necessary legends. The authors should please consider adding legend to figure 1. Though the figure description is adequate, having a legend indicating what open and closed symbols mean within the image will make it very easy for readers to follow. 2.The Venn diagram presented in figure 5 is insightful in differentiating protein expression in the three E.c species. As per the diagram, there are no common protein(s) between ATCC 13047 and intolerant strains used in the study. It is a bit surprising as there is 1 common protein between the tolerant and intolerant strains. Can the authors elaborate or provide an explanation for the same?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors have presented a solid data supporting their claims about the mechanism of cadmium tolerance observed in EC01 strain due to over expression of cysteine-rich DUF326. The study is suited for publication in PeerJ with a few minor suggestions mentioned above.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Proteomics and bioinformatics analysis reveal potential roles of cadmium-binding proteins in cadmium tolerance and accumulation of Enterobacter cloacae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6904v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 26, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
microbiology
