Review History for Comprehensive transcriptional profiling of aging porcine liver [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Comprehensive transcriptional profiling of aging porcine liver To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 14th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 21st, 2019. The first revision was submitted on April 8th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 12th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Xiang-Jiao Yang
·
Apr 12, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for appropriately revising the manuscript. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Elena Papaleo, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 8, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Xiang-Jiao Yang
·
Jan 21, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address the reviewers' concerns point-by-point.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 16, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript entitled “comprehensive transcriptional profiling of porcine live aging” describes the basis analysis of RNA-seq data obtained from the porcine liver. More in-depth analysis would be appreciated. In addition, the grammar and interpretation need more work to make it an easier read. For example, it is hard to make sense of line 251-254.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
qRT-PCR validation should be described within subsection of the type of RNA analyzed, not as a separated subsection and bundled together. Also should be presented as main figures, not supplemental data.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
1.While the authors emphasize on the “understand the transcriptional regulatory mechanism of the liver aging”, work presented is really just basic analysis of RNA-seq data. Therefore, some sentences in the Introduction and Discussion need to be toned down. 2.Should it be differential expressed, not co-expressed (line 251)?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The font of figure label need to be increased, Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Comprehensive transcriptional profiling of aging porcine liver (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6949v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 19, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
(1) There are some problems with sentence structure, verb tense, and clause construction. There are several typographical and grammatical mistakes in the paper, which needs to be proof read carefully and checked. The English of your manuscript must be improved before re-submission. For example, the font of phrase “piglets weaning was performed” at line 79 is not the same as other characters; “OL” should be revised with “OYL” at line 224 and 226; “compared to” should be revised with “between” at line 255; the title of figure legends should be revised to avoid the grammatical mistakes; “NR1H2” should be used the Italic font at line 276 and 180-186 etc. It is strongly suggested that the authors obtain assistance from a colleague who is well-versed in English or whose native language is English. (2) Literature references should be added up several latest reports in parts of Introduction and Discussion. What are the specific representations of senescence associated liver pathological changes and dysfunctions? How are the above changes related to the results of the transcriptional profiling you reported? Please add up the above literature references and discussion in the part of Discussion. It is advised that the phrase “Compared to the young group” should be added up into the line 176. (3) The paragraphs from line 212 to 239 could be an individual part and named “The cross-talk between mRNA and non-coding RNA during liver aging”. Statistical analysis should be showed in the part of Materials & Methods as an individual paragraph. SD or SEM and P-values were not showed in the results of qPCR in Figure S2.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
It is advised that liver senescence and associated pathological changes and dysfunctions would be detected and analyzed using histology, immunity and metabolism testing to consist with the results of transcriptional profiling. Moreover, please offer the Permit Number on the ethics of animal experiments by the local ethics committee.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Statistical analysis should be showed in the part of Materials & Methods as an individual paragraph. Please added up the detail of statistical analysis in each figure legend and showed the SD or SEM and P-values in the figures.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The authors have provided evidences to support the transcriptional profiling of porcine liver aging. Some senescence associated genes of porcine liver were found by RNA sequencing and analyzed by GO annotation. Non-coding RNA were also reported and assessed the cross-talk with the above related target genes. The experiment design and data are sound, but the manuscript is far from qualified to publish in Peer J now. There are some suggestions above that the authors should address to help improve the quality of the manuscript. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Comprehensive transcriptional profiling of aging porcine liver (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6949v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Jan 21, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The language should be improved in parts to more clearly convey the author's intended meaning. Some phrasing and sentence structures make comprehension difficult, for example, lines 45-48, 50-52, 62-67 etc. Shorter and clearer sentences will help. The figures and tables are neat and contain the requisite explanations.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Methods: - please provide reference for the feed used for the young pigs. Is this the standard feeding regimen? - The history/conditions of the old pigs was not discussed at all - Why were 180 days and 8 years selected as the two time points? Please explain the rationale with respect to the normal lifespan of a pig. - Were any tests performed to determine the health status of the older pigs? This is relevant information considering the results discuss the up-regulation of viral associated immune genes. - Please mention the version of pig reference genome used in methods section (it is noted only in results) - Please mention what samples were used for the qPCR? Were they the same ones used for the transcriptome analysis?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Results and Discussion: - The sample size would ideally be 3 samples each for young and old livers but the study only has two which weakens the statistics. Also, it is mentioned that expression of mRNA is counted even if only one of the samples contains expression. This further weakens the significance of the statistics and can potentially skew the PCA plots. Since there are only two samples for each condition, the authors might restrict inclusion of expressed mRNAs only to those present in both samples and re-test the heatmap and PCAs. - Please explain why mRNA and lncRNA expression was grouped to generate Fig 2A - The results have been reported well but some of the inferences may be a little weak just with the observed results alone. For example, down-regulation of some metabolism related genes may not necessarily mean it is proof of compromised metabolic activity at an organ level. Authors should acknowledge that further extensive functional validations are required to claim with certainty. - Validation by qPCR should be performed on multiple independent samples to confirm the expression pattern as seen by transcriptome analysis. This becomes more important since the initial number of samples is only two.
Comments for the author
The study seeks to answer an interesting question which is not covered in the literature. The data sets presented can be useful to other researchers. In order to increase utility, you can provide ranked lists of DEGs derived from your raw data in the form of tables. Overall the manuscript needs work on some sentence structure and phrasing. Simpler sentences will help adding clarity to the reader. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Comprehensive transcriptional profiling of aging porcine liver (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6949v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 14, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
