Review History for Evidence for low prevalence of ranaviruses in Ontario, Canada’s freshwater turtle population [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evidence for low prevalence of ranaviruses in Ontario, Canada’s freshwater turtle population To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 25th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 22nd, 2019. The first revision was submitted on April 18th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 19th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Sheila Colla
·
Apr 19, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Many thanks for clearly addressing the reviewer comments. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by David Roberts, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 18, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Sheila Colla
·
Mar 22, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address the comments from the 3 reviews. I feel they will greatly ameliorate your manuscript prior to publication. I look forward to receiving the edited manuscript.
label_author_1
Davis Carter ·
Mar 20, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Overall the author used clear and concise English throughout the text. The references provided throughout the text are sufficient and provide the necessary background information to the reader. The article is structured appropriately for the target journal. The figures and tables referenced in the paper are included in the submission, however Figure 1 and Table 1 referenced in the Materials and Methods section are incorrectly labeled at the end of the text. Additional comments on wording, cited literature, figures and tables can be found in the comments to author portion of this review.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The article has a clear, well defined objective of determining the prevalence of ranavirus in free-ranging turtles in Ontario, Canada. The research is novel in that no such survey has been conducted previously meaning little is known regarding the impact ranavirus has on chelonians in Ontario, Canada. The methods used are described well enough that the study could be replicated.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results are clearly presented. I commend the author for writing this article, despite not detecting ranavirus in any of the samples tested. Surveys which result in no detection are likely under-reported in amphibian disease literature.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Line 40-42: The conclusions sentences found on these lines are very similar to what is repeated in line 43 of the Methods portion of the abstract. Re-wording the last two sentences of the Background section of the abstract might remove some redundant text. Line 74: Please provide a citation for the statement regarding FV3 occurrence in reptiles. Line 82: Brenes et al. 2015 should be Brenes et al. 2014 Line 82: I understand why you mention amphibians as reservoirs here, but you might want to add a statement suggesting turtles are also a potential reservoir for ranaviruses since they can tolerate infection. The Brenes et al. 2014 paper cited in the previous sentence suggest turtles and fish as reservoir species. Line 83-84: Suggest changing “susceptibility for infection” to “host susceptibility” Line 87: common snapping turtle Line 89: eastern box turtle (Terrapene carolina carolina) Line 91: rephrase ; ranavirus prevalence was determined to be 4.8%-31.6% and 0% for eastern painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) and common musk turtles (Sternotherus odoratus) respectively in Virginia, US. Line 95: consider spelling all numbers <10 throughout the text (e.g. 8 to eight) Line 110: Turtles are admitted to the OTCC hospital Line 116: Consider changing: Sixty-three turtles submitted to OTCC from Ontario, Canada (Figure 1) were tested for ranaviral DNA using PCR; Line 120: Consider rephrasing: During necropsy or evaluation each turtle was observed for clinical signs of disease (Table 1). Line 123: Consider adding a Cat# for the swabs Line 129: Consider changing “viral testing” to “PCR testing” Line 130-134: The only section of the methods which needs more description is found in these lines. Please provide what kit was used to extract the DNA from your samples. Also, please describe whether positive and negative controls were run on each gel. Line 140: Rephrase: “liver and kidney pooled samples” to “liver and kidney homogenate from deceased turtles” Line 151: “Ontario Turtle Conservation Centre” should be OTCC after the first mention. Line 158: A citation needed at the end of this sentence. You could possibly cite the “Comparative Pathology of Ranaviruses and Diagnostic Techniques” section of the “Ranaviruses” book published in 2015. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-13755-1 Line 159: Consider changing “mimic” to “appear similar to”. Using mimic would be an anthropomorphism Line 164-166: Either ignore my previous comment for Line 91 or remove this section. Line 168: (Terrapene Carolina Carolina) to (Terrapene carolina carolina) Line 171: (Goperus Polyphemus) to (Gopherus polyphemus) Line 174: “may die before surveyed” to “may die prior to being surveyed” ; “,so prevalence may be underestimated.” to “resulting in an underestimated prevalence.” Line 208: “Our facility” to “The OTCC” Table 1: is actually Figure 1; make sure all scientific names are italicized and spelled appropriately. Table 2: is actually Table 1; caption needs more description. (e.g. “Species, sex, case number, clinical signs and case outcome for turtles submitted to the OTCC which were tested for ranavirus via PCR.” Cite this review as
Carter D ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evidence for low prevalence of ranaviruses in Ontario, Canada’s freshwater turtle population (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6987v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 20, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I find the paper to be well written, however I have some comments on the reporting of the work. I think the title of the article does not do a good job of encapsulating the results that follow. I would consider changing the title to something like "Evidence for low prevalence of ranaviruses in Ontario's freshwater turtle populations." I believe that given the likely readership and the narrow scope of this paper, the amount of detail afforded to the general biology and pathology of ranaviruses during the introduction could be deemed excessive. I would consider tightening up the introduction to focus primarily of ranavirus prevalence and the important of understanding pathogen prevalence in wildlife diseases. My personal opinion is that this work would be better suited for presentation as a shorter format communication in a reputable journal specialising in wildlife diseases. Given that this is essentially a survey, the work does not seem to be based on any particular testable hypothesis. If the authors do wish to publish in PeerJ then I would like to see the introduction reworked to include some sort of hypothesis declaration and clearer rationale for the study.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is straightforward and appears to be sufficient for the purposes of this study. However, there is a lot of missing information regarding the molecular diagnostics employed for this study. Specifically: How was DNA extracted from each sample type? How was DNA subsequently handled? Why did the authors decide to use conventional PCR rather than one of the available quantitative PCR assays? How was the positivity, or not, of a PCR test deduced? I assume this was by electrophoresis, however it would be useful to state this for clarification. Were positive controls included in each PCR / Gel? Were samples extracted / amplified in duplicate or triplicate, as is standard in diagnosis the presence of a pathogen using PCR of qPCR. At present the molecular portion of the work is not replicable and as such this section requires significant attention before this work can be published in its current form.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The current finding of the paper is zero prevalence of ranavirus in the turtles sampled. I believe that this paper would be strengthened by incorporating the methods alluded to in lines 195 - 197 of the discussion into the paper methods so that paper can include the finding of a suggested prevalence less than 5% in turtles in Ontario. This is a potentially more impactful statement to make. Whilst there is nothing wrong with presenting a negative detection story, in order for it to be interesting of a generalist journal such as PeerJ, the authors should take care to present the results in a positive framework.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I find the paper to be well written. However, I feel that the methodologies are seriously lacking in detail and that the presentation of the papers results lacks ambition. It is my personal opinion that this work would find a more suitable home in a wildlife diseases journal rather than a generalist journal like PeerJ. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Evidence for low prevalence of ranaviruses in Ontario, Canada’s freshwater turtle population (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6987v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Mar 22, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Minor grammatical errors within sections - please see the annotated PDF for suggested changes for strength and clarity. Otherwise, the article meets the standards for literature references, background, article structure, and relevant results for a general survey (not hypothesis-driven, but important for prevalence and disease studies".
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Minor additions would be helpful within the methods section, specifically concerning PCR protocol. The research fits within the Aims and Scope of the journal, with a meaningful research question.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Statistical results were first reported in the discussion section- they should be moved appropriately, but they are justified and helpful to the reader. Negative results are important for prevalence studies, and are well-supported in the discussion and conclusion section.
Comments for the author
Overall, I think this paper is useful for the epidemiology of ranavirus in chelonians. With minor edits as suggested in the attached PDF, it will be a good piece to have available, especially if ranavirus should become problematic in the region in the future and to enhance our evaluation of the disease dynamics at a population and geographic scale. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Evidence for low prevalence of ranaviruses in Ontario, Canada’s freshwater turtle population (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6987v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 25, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
