Review History for Active and passive procrastination in terms of temperament and character [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Active and passive procrastination in terms of temperament and character To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 16th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 29th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on April 18th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 22nd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Gerhard Andersson
·
Apr 22, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors I have now read the response letter and checked the ms and your revisions, and am happy to accept your paper. Sincerely Gerhard Andersson # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Stephen Macknik, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 18, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Gerhard Andersson
·
Mar 29, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear authors We have now reviewed your ms and both reviewers recommend that we offer you the opportunity to revise and resubmit. I look forward to your revision. Sincerely Gerhard Andersson, Editor
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 5, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
First of all, let me thank you for asking me to review this paper. At the general level it is well written and it addresses most of the literature related to the topic of procrastination. However, the Introduction lacks a consistent logic om how the authors intertwine procrastination-personality-emotional intelligence.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I do think that the research question is well-defined. The authors should develop the limitation section of the paper much further than what is stated in the present version.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings and conclusions are valid as far as I can see. However, I'm not sure I follow in the rationale about temperament and character profiles. What I can see is that the authors create single scores that then are used to state that, in the case of temperament for example, the higher value means dependable temperament while the lower, the less dependable. I do not see that this is a profile and it does not seem to be used as a profile either. But then again, I might have misunderstood what the authors actually did. In addition, saying that an active procrastinator is creative is a bit problematic...for instance, are all creative individuals active procrastinators? The authors need to adress these type of questions that their findings and design generates.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Active and passive procrastination in terms of temperament and character (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6988v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 28, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The English language is at a good level, but it can be improved after the manuscript is improved. Literature references are satisfactory, with sufficient field background/context provided. Professional article structure is satisfactory and the article has all the standard sections as well as figures and tables. The data under tables’ and figures’ titles should be transferred to the Results section. Raw data are also shared. The manuscript includes all results relevant to the hypothesis, but I suggest hypotheses to be better formulated.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This is original primary research within Aims and Scope of the journal. Research question are not well defined but according to the aim and hypotheses, I assume that they are relevant and meaningful. It is stated how research fills an identified knowledge gap. The research was performed to a high technical and ethical standard, and methods are described with sufficient detail & information to replicate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
My biggest concern is regarding how data were reported in this manuscript and I think there is room for improvement in this part. Once the results are presented in a more understandable and informative manner, the discussion should also be adapted to this. Finally, the conclusions should be better defined and in line with the problems which should be provided.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I have read the manuscript “Active and passive procrastination in terms of temperament and character” several times and I find this to be an interesting research paper that gives a new perspective on procrastination research. I find the research was done properly, but the manuscript in my opinion could be a little better organized and written in the results and the discussion part. Some moderate changes could help this manuscript be more easily understood, more informative regarding the interesting data it presents, and in the end, more easy to read and follow. As for basic reporting I think that the manuscript is well written, and that the level of English is satisfactory, but there are specific points where some of the sentences could be rephrased (I list them later in specific comments). As stated above, I think this manuscript has room for improvement, specifically in the relation between aims – results – discussion. It is not quite clear what the aim was because it is described in general, with no specific aims listed. The authors do list the hypotheses, which is good, but the results do not follow those hypotheses clearly and understandably. For some of the analyses it is not clear as to why the authors did them and in what way they help answer their problems, because they do not explain it, and this is not something that will take a lot of time to add. I just think that this should be stated more clearly, because in fact the authors listed 4 hypotheses in the Introduction and then in the Results started answering them in the opposite direction. You mention 4 hypotheses - I suggest also writing 4 problems first, and then the exact hypotheses – what precisely are you expecting to find regarding those 4 problems, what kind of associations. In the results, after general descriptive part, your result should be presented in a way that makes it clear what you did do answer your problems, one by one, and what the results in this manner show. In the Discussion part you should comment on those results, again in the same order, so it is easy for the reader to follow. An in the end, in Conclusion you should sum up your results as precise answers to your problems stated at the beginning. All the explanation given under Table or Figure titles should be moved to the Results section. As for more specific comments, they are listed in a separate file that I will attach. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Active and passive procrastination in terms of temperament and character (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.6988v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 16, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
