Review History for Mobile gene silencing in Arabidopsis is regulated by hydrogen peroxide [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Mobile gene silencing in Arabidopsis is regulated by hydrogen peroxide To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 6th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 21st, 2014. The first revision was submitted on November 24th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 26th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Savithramma Dinesh-Kumar
·
Nov 26, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised manuscript appropriately addressed most of the comments raised by the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 24, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Savithramma Dinesh-Kumar
·
Oct 21, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviews are positive regarding your manuscript findings. However, they suggested several minor modifications (see attached reviews). The second reviewer brings up a good point on the location of RCI3 function. I suggest in addition to making textual changes suggested by both the reviewers, you also address in the text the possible location (source or sink) of RCI3 function.
label_author_1
Takeo Harada ·
Oct 16, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript reports the effect of hydrogen peroxide on the mobile (cell-to-cell) in Arabidopsis.The authors done the many experiments, EMS mutagenesis screening, genetic mapping of the cause gene, the complementation, H2O2 and its eliminators effects. Furthermore, they used several valuable materials such as AtSuc2:PDS. In addition, there are a lot of convincing photographs. I think that the manuscript is satisfactory content for PeerJ.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I think that experimental design is absolutely no problems.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The finding in this manuscript is also great validity. Since the content of this manuscript is composed from rich data and the discussion is well thought out, I think that the manuscript is satisfactory content for PeerJ.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This manuscript reports the effect of hydrogen peroxide on the mobile (cell-to-cell) in Arabidopsis. I think that experimental design is absolutely no problems. The authors done the many experiments, EMS mutagenesis screening, genetic mapping of the cause gene, the complementation, H2O2 and its eliminators effects. Furthermore, they used several valuable materials including AtSuc2:PDS. In addition, there are a lot of convincing photographs. The finding in this manuscript is also great validity. Since the content of this manuscript is composed from rich data and the discussion is well thought out, I think that the manuscript is satisfactory content for PeerJ. Minor points that should be addressed in the manuscript are as follows; L56; plasmodesmata to plasmodesmata (PD) L63; EMS to EMS (ethyl methansulfonate) L65; (Dex-)inducible to (Dex-) inducible L68; Kim et al.(Kim to Kim et al. (Kim L113; plasmodesmata to PD. The same situations are at L223, 224, 226, 227, 232, 243, 249, 276, 284. L136; Dexamethasone (Dex) to Dex L140; (ethyl methanesulfonate; EMS) to EMS L146; Fig. 1a to Fig. 1A L167; Fig. 1b to Fig. 1B L439; In Fig 1B, the order of RtSS and rci3-2 should be change? L459; Following sentence should be put "n = number of replicate plants" L460; X axis of Fig 3F does not reflect the day length. L469; Figure 4 is hard to understand the working model. Where is PD and ER? There is no explanation about ER in this figure. L473; To find the Ref.25 paper, the readers have to count the references from top. The same problem is L 476 (Ref. 32-34). Fig. S1D; (arbitrary units to (arbitrary units). In regend, 200µM to 200µm. "n=number of replicate plants" should be put. Fig. S4; Kanamycin to kanamycin Fig. S6; panel A and B should be changed to be fit to standard exhibition. Fig. S7; triangle RtSS and the same triangle rci3-2 are hard to understand. Cite this review as
Harada T ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Mobile gene silencing in Arabidopsis is regulated by hydrogen peroxide (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.701v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Charles Melnyk ·
Oct 20, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
-Line 35 – “provide” is more accurate than exchange. Exchange suggests information is passed in two directions, which may not be the case -in the material and methods section, the RtSS system should be described in greater detail, as this line is used throughout the manuscript. Ie – what promoter, what does it target (GF), etc -Line 153 – “observed in 13” – does this refer to reference 13? References are not numbered -Figure 1B. The text says that P region-derived siRNAs are present in RtSS shoots, but not mutant shoots. This is opposite to what is observed in Figure 1B since rci3 shoots have siRNAs, but not RtSS shoots. Either 1B is mislabeled, the data have been misinterpreted, or I’m not understanding something here. The text or figure need to be fixed. -Figure 1B – the northern should be quantified and values added for each lane below the blot -Line 179 should be fig S3, not fig S2 -Line 180 – RCI3 should be spelt out in the first instance -Line 229 – “enhanced the rate of spread of gene silencing in RtSS plants (fig S7)…” (to make it clearer) -Figure 1A – the word “days” should be indicated on one of the panels -Figure 2A – not clear what the number column to the far right indicates -Figure 2 – P values indicated in the figure legend, but not in the figure. Why aren’t bars SEM? -Figure 2 – not clear what is meant by “RtSS normalised to rci3-2, Col0 normalised to rci3-1” -Figure 3 – what is meant by replicate? One could just say number of plants, or was this experiment repeated many times, with many plants? -Figure S2 – what promoter is driving GUS; how does staining look in the shoots? -Figure S5 – what is H2DCFDA? Need to explain this in the materials and methods, and spell out this compound. -Figure S6B – “and the plants on the right were used as controls in the same plates” What does this mean? What are these plants? -Figure S7 – do you mean plants, or number of repeated experiments (replicates)?
Experimental design
label_ed_2
-it is not clear if RCI3 is required in the source of the RNAi signal, the sink, or both locations. In particular, one publication suggests that RCI3 is only expressed in the root (Llorente et al 2002), suggesting that expression there could be sufficient. Providing this information would strengthen the manuscript. Arabidopsis hypocotyl micro-grafting could be used for this purpose with the following combinations (shoot/root) or something similar: oRtSS rci3 / p35S::GF-IR (no dex) oGFP / RtSS rci3 (dex added) -What is the affect on RtSS rci3 plants when H2O2 and NEM are added together?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The data presented by Liang et al is consistent with hydrogen peroxide affecting siRNA mobility. It does not rule out that RCI3/H2O2 is required for signal amplification (ie transitivity) in the shoot or targeting in the shoot. This should be made clear in the discussion section. The role of RCI3 in the plant defence network is unknown as far as I can tell. For lines 271-272, a reference should be provided, or the word “precise” deleted
Cite this review as
Melnyk C ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Mobile gene silencing in Arabidopsis is regulated by hydrogen peroxide (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.701v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 6, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
