Review History for One-class land-cover classification using MaxEnt: the effect of modelling parameterization on classification accuracy [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History One-class land-cover classification using MaxEnt: the effect of modelling parameterization on classification accuracy To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 27th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 18th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on April 24th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 25th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Giles Foody
·
Apr 25, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revisions made appear to have enhanced the article. I personally still have concerns on the use of kappa but would not wish to let my views on kappa unduly impact on the review process. I hope that your article is well-received.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 24, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Giles Foody
·
Mar 18, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Two referees have provided positive reviews of your submission. The review comments indicate some issues that require attention but only relatively minor revision that should enhance the final paper. I have only one issue to flag in addition to the comments from the referees - the use of kappa coefficients can be problematic. Kappa is widely used but its magnitude can be greatly influenced by, for example, variations in prevalence. Some comments that the accuracy metric should be selected and interpreted with care would probably be sufficient to address the concern given the way the argument is made in the paper.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 9, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors present a systematic analysis about how modeling parameterization affect the classification accuracy of MaxEnt; if these parameter effects depend on the land-cover under analysis; and can we identify the best parameter setting for different land-cover classes and compare its performance with the default parameter setting. Overall, the study goals are well clear and logical. The article is well written, which is well structured and easy to follow. But the tables and figures still need to be improved.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The goal of this study is clear, and the experimental design is clear as well. But the results section need to be improved. Please see below for detailed comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Need to be improved. Detailed comments please see below.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
General comments: The authors present a systematic analysis about how modeling parameterization affect the classification accuracy of MaxEnt; if these parameter effects depend on the land-cover under analysis; and can we identify the best parameter setting for different land-cover classes and compare its performance with the default parameter setting. Overall, the study goals are well clear and logical, and the article is well written. However, the result and conclusion of the study are not very clear. Some major comments are showed as follows: 1.As mentioned in Line 15-17, the classification accuracy is highly affected by the land-cover type being classified. However, the land-cover classes in this study seems to be too few. In addition, the class level of land-cover is too simple/coarse (e.g., the build-up includes many types of land-covers), which is not clear to thoroughly analysis the effects of modeling parameterization, especially in spatial heterogeneous areas. For example, the FC (feature classes) parameter is important on the final accuracy (Line214) and heavily dependent on the land-cover. Of which, L and Q features are both simple features, which are beneficial to spatially homogenous covers (e.g., built-up), but weaken for more heterogeneous covers (e.g., irrigated). However, for the weakness, we do not know the reason due to heterogeneous covers. To make the parameter effect on different land-cover classifications, it would be better to analysis the parameter effects with more land-cover types. 2.Line 23, the SS (sampling size) has a positive effect on classification result. However, you did not give us the effect will exist to what extent. According to Fig.3, with the increase of SS, the K accuracy will increase. Therefore, we wondering whether you should to increase the sampling size from 100 to a larger value until the K value becomes stable. The comments are also suited for TP and RM parameters (Fig.2 and Fig.4). 3.Except the setting of SS, TP, and RM parameters, it is not clear if there are some specific FC and BT parameters that can provide higher quality classifications based on the results (Line 301, Line 336-339). In other words, users will need to explore the optimal value of the most two important parameter by continuous trying. Therefore, how can results of this study give some guidance for setting the two parameters? 4.Line 266-270, only around half comparisons (23/44) show that the best parameters outperformed the default parameters. It is really sounds illogical. The best parameter should possess best accuracy, at least equally well. Although you have given some discussions, which seems reasonable for the insignificant difference in the comparison result. However, for significant difference between the best parameter and default setting (e.g., MTP in fig.6a), it need more discussions. Minor comments: 1.Line 175, what is the class distribution of the randomly selected 1000 points? 2.Line 50, “another issue” should be replaced by another word, such as however. Because from Line41 to Line 50, the content is about the strength of maximum likelihood algorithm. 3.The Abstract did not show the clear result of the three goals of the study. Some specific parameter setting guidance should be given. 4.Line 18, the sentence “but for heterogeneous land-cover …” is not result. 5.Line 309, “heterogenous” should be “heterogeneous”, please check thoroughly. 6.Please give full name of the abbreviations AUC, IF and NM (Line 365, Line 151, and Line185) 7.Line 395-397. You suggest using manual parameterization could generate better land-classification accuracy outcomes. However, it is not consistent for irrigated grass (Line 275-277). 8.Line 101, “depends” should be “depend” Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "One-class land-cover classification using MaxEnt: the effect of modelling parameterization on classification accuracy (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7016v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Sandra Skowronek ·
Mar 18, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is well written and well structured, but a few sentences should be revised language-wise. Most of the relevant literature is cited, and the context is provided for. The submission is ‘self-contained’. It is not clear to me whether or not the raw data is being shared / already available somewhere.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The article is original primary research that falls within the aims and scope of the journal. It clearly fills a knowledge gap, which is well identified. The methods are sufficiently described to be replicable.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are valid and meaningful, and the benefit to the literature is clear; data seems to be robust and the conclusions are well stated.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The article tests the effects of varying Maxent modelling parameters as well as parameters related to the modelling process. The large number of different models that were built do allow to draw conclusions on the effects of those parameters, specifically for the application of using Maxent for land cover classification. As modelling algorithms are frequently applied without in-depth analysis of the effects of the modelling parameters used, the contribution is very valuable to anyone applying Maxent for land cover classification (or for species distribution modelling in general). Here are some comments and suggestions for improvement: Introduction Line 70/71: “it has shown good performance” – Here it would be good to add some literature sources that have confirmed the good performance of Maxent, and maybe to add a sentence on why you chose to work with maxent because many other classifiers have also shown good performance and are widely used for land cover classification, e.g. SVM or regression trees. Line 77/78: “the only published study on Maxent parametrization for land cover classification of which we are aware” – in a recent publication (Skowronek et al. 2018) we used Maxent to map an invasive species and tested the effect of varying feature class and regularization multiplier. The results were somewhat similar to your findings (see Skowronek S, Van De Kerchove R, Rombouts B et al (2018) Transferability of species distribution models for the detection of an invasive alien bryophyte using imaging spectroscopy data. Int J Appl Earth Obs Geoinf 68:61–72. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jag.2018.02.001 ). Methods Line 131: “as MaxEnd models can be sensitive to over-parametrization” – please provide a reference for this statement; a statement in Elith et al. 2011 suggests the opposite, mentioning that Maxent is rather robust and possibly able to deal with correlated input data. (“In particular, it is more stable in the face of correlated variables than stepwise regression, so there is less need to remove correlated variables” (see Elith, J., Phillips, S.J., Hastie, T., Dudík, M., Chee, Y.E., Yates, C.J., 2011. A statistical explanation of MaxEnt for ecologists. Divers. Distrib. 17, 43–57. http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1111/j.1472-4642.2010.00725.x.). Line 158: You varied the sample size from 40 to 100 samples – I assume this is the number of presence points? What about the background points? How many background points did you use, how did you generate them, or did you use the respective presence points of the other classes as background? As the choice of the background plays an essential role this should definitely be explained. Line 168: “All MaxEnt models were run using the random seed feature” – please provide a short explanation what the random seed feature is or a reference / where it is availabe. Method section: Do you say somewhere what program/ software packages you used for the modelling? If not already included please add this information. Might also be helpful to include your full script as supplement. Line 185: “IF and NM” – I assume those are the initials of the authors, maybe substitute the abbreviations by “the authors of this study” or the full names; the abbreviations are confusing. Whole manuscript: You are using the abbreviations for fc, rm, ss, tp etc. throughout the text. However, these abbreviations are not really standard, or well known abbreviations, especially not to readers who have not used Maxent before. I suggest using the full expressions (feature class, regularization multiplier etc.) as much as possible, and only using abbreviations where really necessary, e.g. in graphics where you don’t have enough space, or in equations. Most people are not able to remember several previously unknown abbreviations along the whole article; it makes some parts of the text unnecessarily difficult to. Results Line 219/220: “was the largest differed” – please revise the sentence language wise Line 223/224: “T, Q and TQ” – shouldn’t it be L, Q and LQ? Line 261-266: sentence is difficult to read, please revise sentence structure. Line 361-365: please revise language wise Discussion: Line 329-339: From your data, is there any conclusion you can draw on what type of threshold worked better for which land cover class? Or can you suggest what research would be necessary to approach this topic? Also, there are a few more publications that have varied fc and rm in studies aimed at modelling species distribution, some of them could be included (see discussion in Skowronek et al. 2018). Supplement The supplements contain relevant tables showing an overview of the modelling results and parameters. However, the excel worksheet “Graphs” is only telling me that “this chart is not available in your version of excel”; I would suggest exporting the graphs as PDF instead of using Excel. Cite this review as
Skowronek S ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "One-class land-cover classification using MaxEnt: the effect of modelling parameterization on classification accuracy (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7016v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 27, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
