Review History for Plasticity of gene expression according to salinity in the testis of broodstock and F1 black-chinned tilapia, Sarotherodon melanotheron heudelotii [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Plasticity of gene expression according to salinity in the testis of broodstock and F1 black-chinned tilapia, Sarotherodon melanotheron heudelotii To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 20th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 12th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on November 26th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 27th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Nov 27, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The revised version of your manuscript has been considered and I am pleased to accept it.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 26, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Nov 12, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear author, we have received the comments regarding your work.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 3, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript reports new and valuable insights on gene expression modulation in the testis of black-chinned tilapia in response to changes in salinity. The paper is well written in a concise way but the result presentation is not sufficiently clear. I cannot find any logic in the order of genes in Tables, figures or text. This, together with the complex names of genes make very difficult to follow them along the MS or in the Figures. Authors must reordered the genes in Tables, Figures and text and explain the reasons of the criterion.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Authors have to explain why they have chosen this protocol for the salinity acclimation (rate and times). Given that they have not detected any other biological effect on the fish, they must also explain how they are sure that these conditions are representative of those occurring in natural habitats. Obtaining accurate and reliable results from relative qRT-PCR is not an easy task; particularly in individuals maintaining their genetic diversity. As the authors explain, usually, the main problem is to find the appropriate housekeeping genes. Along the MS, authors remark the importance of inter-individual variability in gene expression as indicative of developmental plasticity in adaptive mechanisms. In this context, this variability become of great importance. So, authors should explain how they calculated error bars in Figure 1 and 2, what these bars are representing (SD, SEM, etc.). They must also show the results of the analyses mentioned in lines 179-184, in order to know which percentage of this variability in Figures 1 and 2 have to be attributed to the variations of the reference genes.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Authors state (several times) that 43 genes have been investigated, but only the 20 genes that are differentially expressed at mRNA level are showed. The knowledge of the 23 genes that are not responsive to salinity changes is also of interest. Authors should include a table with these genes and the proteins that they encode. Please, check the last sentence about the PCA analysis (line 206). It is in contradiction with the graphic in Figure 4 and with the discussion (lines 240-244). This paper constitutes a correct work on gene expression at transcriptional level, but the results don’t support some affirmations that are made along the text. For instance, it is too exaggerated to state repeatedly (both in the discussion and conclusions, lines 260 and 370, respectively) that the differentially expressed genes are “actively” involved in the mechanisms of acclimation to salinity changes. This sort of affirmations needs additional studies from different experimental approaches. Authors should test (e.g., by Western blot) if the differential expression a transcriptional level is correlated with differential level of the corresponding proteins, but at least they must check the MS and correct these assertions.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Plasticity of gene expression according to salinity in the testis of broodstock and F1 black-chinned tilapia, Sarotherodon melanotheron heudelotii (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.702v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 12, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Line 237. Add correct reference in the position at [8]. Line 299-306. In gills, NKA plays an essential role in osmoregulation by branchial ionocytes to uptake/excrete ions actively from/to environmental water, respectively, and NKA roles in the testes should be different from that in the gills because testes have no ionocytes. So, it is better for this MS to rewrite the description I pointed out without comparison with branchial NKA expression patterns. In Figs. 2 and 3, I recommend to the authors to use dots instead of commas for the decimal points in Y axis. Add the information for error bars (maybe standard deviations) in figure legends. Change the description manner for the results of statistical analyses. It is hard for readers to know the significant differences promptly from the present style of figures because alphabets are quite far from corresponding columns. In Fig.4, change the colors for the squares representing B35 and B70 because it may become difficult to distinguish one from the other in hard copy/small form. What is 0 (triangle) stands for in this figure? There are two 0 groups (transferred and 2nd gen) in this study. If the authors express combined data of these two 0 groups as 0, please divide into T0 and B0.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Why the authors use fishes at different ages in transferred (18+1 months) and 2nd gen (9 to 11 months) experiments? It is known that age is one of the major influential factors for gonadal condition. Some discussions with revised Fig. 4 (including T0 and B0) will be helpful to assess the effects of age difference in this study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
This MS lacks some fundamental information for scientific validation, like gonadosomatic index, condition factors, plasma osmolality etc… These data are kinds of classical parameters, and it is widely accepted that gonadosomatic index is useful to know the maturation status of gonadal tissues. If the authors have already obtained these data, I strongly recommend showing in results or table. These kinds of information will contribute to the fruitful discussion in this MS.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Plasticity of gene expression according to salinity in the testis of broodstock and F1 black-chinned tilapia, Sarotherodon melanotheron heudelotii (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.702v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 20, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
