Review History for Accelerated construction of an in vitro model of human periodontal ligament tissue: vacuum plasma combined with fibronectin coating and a polydimethylsiloxane matrix [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Accelerated construction of an in vitro model of human periodontal ligament tissue: vacuum plasma combined with fibronectin coating and a polydimethylsiloxane matrix To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 13th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 7th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on April 26th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 29th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Apr 29, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All the critiques were adequately addressed and the manuscript was revised accordingly. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Pedro Silva, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 26, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Apr 7, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address critiques of all reviewers and revise manuscript accordingly. [# PeerJ Staff Note: Please ensure that all review comments are addressed in an appropriate rebuttal letter, and please ensure that any edits or clarifications mentioned in the rebuttal letter are also inserted into the revised manuscript (where appropriate). Direction on how to prepare a rebuttal letter can be found at: https://peerj.com/benefits/academic-rebuttal-letters/ #]
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 28, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript shows clear and professional organization and sufficient reference and background. All the data were analyzed and interpreted appropriately. The figures and tables are shown with good quality and support the hypotheses.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Methods described in the manuscript is sufficient to follow. Research question well defined, relevant and meaningful.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
After systematic evaluation, the authors successfully developed novel construction of an in vitro model of human periodontal ligament tissue by using vacuum plasma combined with fibronectin coating and a polydimethylsiloxane matrix. This new method is absolutely suitable for the publication. Data was interpreted completely and supported the conclusion.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall, the manuscript contains sufficient data to support its conclusion. The authors created a new in vitro model of human periodontal ligament tissue successfully. The organization of the full text is scientific and professional for publication. The authors may need to consider polishing the language for a better understanding of international researchers. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Accelerated construction of an in vitro model of human periodontal ligament tissue: vacuum plasma combined with fibronectin coating and a polydimethylsiloxane matrix (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7036v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 5, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors have examined the role of the combination of fibronectin coating and vacuum plasma treatment with polymethylsiloxane cell culture in achieving accelerated osteogenic gene expression and construction of an in vitro human periodontal ligament fibroblast stretching model. General comments: 1.The manuscript is well written with a clear introduction and extensive review of the published literature. 2.The authors have brought out the research question into purview in a lucid manner. 3.The correct provenance of the cell line has been described. The methods and the technical details have been well described.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
My major concern is with the data analysis and its representation 1.The statistics section in this MS seems to be highly inadequate where there is no clarity on the statistical tests used (paired or unpaired tests), the distribution of data and whether a post hoc analysis was done or not. 2.There is no mention of the statistical platform (Stata, R, SPSS etc.) used for the statistical analysis. The statistical paltform should be mentioned in the method section. 3.The data has been inadequately represented in the MS with the use of only p-values for statistical significance ignoring the importance of confidence intervals. Author should include confidence intervals 4.Tables for the results need to be added and the quality of the graphs should be improved.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Accelerated construction of an in vitro model of human periodontal ligament tissue: vacuum plasma combined with fibronectin coating and a polydimethylsiloxane matrix (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7036v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Apr 7, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
A.The English language should be improved for a clearer understanding of the international audience. Manuscript revision by native English-speaking colleagues could be helpful in this regard. Some examples where languages could be improved: line396-398, 400-401, 409-410, etc. Other minor corrections are below, -Line 62-65: Two subsequent sentences were started with “During orthodontic treatment,…”. Please consider rewriting these sentences. -Line 80: “Chemical and physical treatment techniques…” - - > “Several chemical and physical treatment techniques…” -Line 82: “It enhances binding of the …” - - > “It enhances the binding of the …” -Line 84: “physical treatment technique.” - - > “physical treatment technique to enhance hydrophilicity.” -Line 85-86: “followed by acrylic acid…” - - > “followed by treatment with acrylic acid…” -Line 254-255: “Cell nuclei stained blue and the cytoplasm (cytoskeleton) stained green.” - - > “Cell nuclei were stained blue and the cytoplasm (cytoskeleton) were stained green.” -Line 303-304: “PDMS is a hydrophilic material, and therefore treatment devised to improve its surface wettability is usually considered conducive to cell and extracellular matrix growth.” - - > “PDMS is a hydrophobic material, and therefore it’s chemical and physical treatments were devised to improve its surface wettability which is usually considered conducive to cell and extracellular matrix growth.” -Line 390: “…of surface modification methods,” - - > “…of surface modification methods reported,” -Line 397: “…cellular polarity appearance indicated accelerated model construction ability,” - - > “…cellular polarity appearance indicated the accelerated model construction ability,” B.The introduction could be improved as suggested below, -The main theme of the paper is the accelerated construction of an in vitro model of human periodontal ligament tissue. Please discuss the significance of developing in vitro model of human periodontal ligament tissue at the end of first paragraph (line 73) or the beginning of second (line 75) paragraph. As these types of models were reported previously (Liao et al 2013, Liao et al 2013,), please explain the context that the current model is addressing. A brief discussion about the previous models will be appropriate. -Line 34: Sentence “Orthodontic treatment makes one beautiful.” Orthodontic treatment is used for prevention of teeth disease and beautification. As this is the introductory sentence of the abstract, a comprehensive introduction of orthodontics will be more suitable here. -Line 62: “….tissues of tooth and bone.” Addition of a brief introduction (1-2 line) of orthodontic treatment will be helpful to the reader. -Line 61: “….tooth roots to the alveolar bone.” Please cite the reference. -Line 63: “….stretching and compression forces.” Please cite the reference. -Line 72-73: “The difference between clinical observation and biochemical responses inspired us to further examine the bone metabolism mechanism in PDL tissues.” It will be clearer to the reader if rewritten as “Similar biochemical responses for directional and compression forces inspired us ….” Please elaborate on how is that observation relevant to the study presented here. -Line 78: “…a low Young's modulus value.” Please cite the reference. -Line 87-90: “A combination of chemical….of ECM proteins.” For clarification to the reader, please indicate that combined use of chemical and physical techniques to modify surface properties was successful before as reported in [ref]. C.Please structure the abstract as background/methods/results or any format of your choice for clarity. D.There are few minor corrections for figures. -Figure 4: Please provide sufficient space between E & G and F & H, respectively for more clarity. The ‘NN’ of figure E and ‘FN’ of figure F appear to be in figure G and H, respectively. -Figure 6: “Note that cells from group PF had significantly higher Runx-2 gene expression than group PN on day 1 and day 3, and OCN gene expression on day 1.” - - > “Note that cells from group PF had significantly higher Runx-2 and OCN gene expression than group PN on day 3.” Please mention what the ‘*’ are indicating and remove the ‘*’ from day 1 (Runx-2). E.There are few minor corrections for raw data. -Some of the values in the raw data for Fig. 2 (AFM) are written in Chinese or Japanese. Translating these values into English will help the international audience. -Consistent naming of the images or documents in the raw data as followed in the manuscript will improve clarity.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
A.The current work fits well with the scope of the journal. B.The addressed research question was well defined. As mentioned previously, the introduction needs to elaborate on how the present work will address the identified knowledge gap. C.Experiments were performed with a high technical standard. D.The methods are described in sufficient details to replicate the results.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
A.Data is robust. B.The conclusions are clear and adequately address the original research questions. C.Could you please elaborate in the discussion section how the acceleration of the gene expression and cellular polarity in the current model compares with the previous models?
Comments for the author
No comment. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Accelerated construction of an in vitro model of human periodontal ligament tissue: vacuum plasma combined with fibronectin coating and a polydimethylsiloxane matrix (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7036v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 13, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
