Review History for Systematic review and meta-analysis of 50 years of coral disease research visualized through the scope of network theory [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Systematic review and meta-analysis of 50 years of coral disease research visualized through the scope of network theory To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 26th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 14th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on April 11th, 2019 and was reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 30th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Xavier Pochon
·
Apr 30, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Luis and co-authors, It is with great pleasure that I accept this manuscript for publication in PeerJ. I have carefully read this final version, and only found a couple very minor edits for you to consider at the proofs stage (see the annotated pdf file attached). This is a very clean, well-written, and comprehensive study that will be of broad interest to the scientific community. Thank you! With regards, Xavier [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Rob Toonen, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 28, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The Revised article is acceptable for publication
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Appropriate Experimental Design
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Appropriate
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The revised manuscript is acceptable for publication. No further issues are raised. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Systematic review and meta-analysis of 50 years of coral disease research visualized through the scope of network theory (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7041v0.2/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 29, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Addition of the supplementary materials was really helpful
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors have done a good job clarifying and expanding upon the relevance of their findings to the field of coral disease research.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This revised manuscript is much more easily understood and will be a nice addition to our knowledge of the state of coral disease research. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Systematic review and meta-analysis of 50 years of coral disease research visualized through the scope of network theory (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7041v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 11, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Xavier Pochon
·
Feb 14, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Luis and co-authors, Please accept my apologies for the delay in response. I was awaiting comments from a third reviewer who is being delayed due to personal matters - these additional comments might be forwarded to you via PeerJ staff in the next few days. In order not to delay this work any further, here is my recommendation based on two contrasting (one minor and one major) reviews. Both reviewers have acknowledged that the manuscript is of good quality and the findings novel and interesting. However, both reviewers have also noted that the discussion and conclusion sections require additional information, in particular the revised manuscript should provide more emphasis on research gaps and future areas of research. I will be looking forward to receiving your modified manuscript along with a point-by-point response to the reviewers' comments. With warm regards, Xavier
label_author_3
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 15, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
All basic reporting is to standard and no major issues are presented.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The experimental work is well laid out and clear
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Findings are valid and interesting
Comments for the author
label_cfta_3
Overall; This study undertakes an assembly of the literature associated with coral disease investigations then conducts a network analysis exercise to identify what diseases have been studied the most and more importantly what maybe understudied and therefore require more attention in further studies. The approach is interesting and novel and I have no major concerns with the study. It is laid out logically and the construction of the manuscript is solid. It is acceptable for publication with only minor corrections. The one major element that could be added however in my view - is stronger emphasis on the take home message(s). This approach is most valuable to the scientific field if identifying what are the aspects of coral disease research that should be the focus for future studies. Previous studies have highlighted microscopic histological approaches to link tissue disease signs with the gross lesion characteristics. This current network analysis identified some limitations in the research to date; but does not emphasize strongly enough what should be the future research focus areas. When reading the manuscript these take home messages are just skimmed over. For example linking studies focused on immune systems to some coral disease maybe a recommendation out of the study. Hence I would recommend perhaps in the concluding paragraph a list (perhaps dot point list) of the 4 to 6 focal areas of research that should be undertaken to progress coral disease understanding – that is directly informed from this network theory approach. Minor Points; •Abstract line 3: remove “in Order” Start the sentence as “To gain a better insight… •Introduction Line 2: this sentence should maybe qualified as for some areas; i.e. Not all reefs and regions have been heavily impacted by disease unless you are including Bleaching (which be definition is a disease I know). However in this context I believe the term disease is not referring to bleaching mortality. •Methods line 48: be sure to make available the papers included in this study; it is says here this is provided as supplementary materials but I could not find this file in the submitted document (unless I missed it). •Line 89: Agin remove “In Order” not required. •Table 1: Is the Northern Sector of the GBR separate from the central and Southern regions. Why is the Central and Southern GBR grouped but not the Northern? Just need a justification or some further information on the Bioregions? •Line 164: infection perhaps instead of “affection” Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Systematic review and meta-analysis of 50 years of coral disease research visualized through the scope of network theory (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7041v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_4
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 16, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_4
The paper is well written but the discussion needs to be more fully developed.
Experimental design
label_ed_4
This appears to be a standard approach. My only concern is that they define "white syndrome" as tissue discoloration and loss. White syndrome is a tissue loss disease regardless of whether the lesion has discolorations or not. Not sure if that would effect the categorization of their clusters or not.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_4
Findings are interesting and valid. However, they need to be presented in a much clearer manner.
Comments for the author
This is an interesting approach with the intent to determine where research efforts have been in coral disease research identifying potential gaps. The concept is interesting and I think there is valuable information presented. Table 1 is clear and informative although I would request a full Table with all of the information even as a supplemental file. From the full Table one could better evaluation which corals, regions, etc are completely missing. The authors, however, need a better visual representation of their findings (Fig. 5-7) or perhaps better, more detailed information in the Figure legends. Perhaps something along the lines of Fig. 2? In order for this paper to be useful there needs to be a better explanation of what these “communities” are and what they tell us in terms of research gaps. Discussion needs to be developed more fully explaining the major new understanding of coral disease research efforts. For example, in the discussion it is stated that “For example, Black Band Disease occupies a preponderant place in coral disease research. “ but they don’t explain how the Figures support this. Is it because BBD is linked across 5 clusters (c2, c4, c5, c12, c14)? If so, then they need to spell that out so readers can better understand these results. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Systematic review and meta-analysis of 50 years of coral disease research visualized through the scope of network theory (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7041v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 26, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
