Review History for PTMphinder: an R package for PTM site localization and motif extraction from proteomic datasets [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History PTMphinder : an R package for PTM site localization and motif extraction from proteomic datasets To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 27th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 1st, 2019. Notes
This was a re-submission of an article which was previously reviewed at PeerJ. Hence there was more review history (relating to that that earlier revision) than is indicated on this history page.
label_version_1
Version 0.1 (accepted)
Simon Hubbard
·
May 1, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I really hope you can take the advice of the reviewers on board and ensure the software is made available via BioConductor for use by colleagues. I agree with their comment that it will maximise its use and get greater traction for your group. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section. As part of his approval, Professor Crandalla lso strongly requests that you also add your software to BioConductor - you can do this while in production #]
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 4, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No addition comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Methods are now described, although this does reveal how trivial the software is. It's good to see that support for other PTMs (beyond phosphorylation) has now been added. A PSI standard (mzTab) is now mentioned as future work, though what role it would play is not specified. The authors' argument that "we would like to finalize the publication of our tool prior to uploading it to BioConductor to ensure that it is thoroughly tested and optimized" is concerning as it implies the software may not be fit for purpose at the present time.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Basic validation has now been added.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I do not expect this to be a high impact paper. The methods are straightforward, the software is simple (169 lines of R code) and without incorporation into a package such as BioConductor it will not be widely used. Having said all that, none of these issues appear to preclude this revised version of the paper from being accepted for publication in PeerJ. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "PTMphinder: an R package for PTM site localization and motif extraction from proteomic datasets (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7046v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 27, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
