Review History for Influence of foetal inflammation on the development of meconium aspiration syndrome in term neonates with meconium-stained amniotic fluid [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Influence of foetal inflammation on the development of meconium aspiration syndrome in term neonates with meconium-stained amniotic fluid To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 9th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 12th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on March 25th, 2019 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 1st, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Salvatore Andrea Mastrolia
·
May 1, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Authors, I would like to compliment with you for the efforts provided in addressing the Reviewers' comments. The Reviewers felt that your manuscript has been considered suitable for publication and can be accepted in its current form. Best regards Salvatore Andrea Mastrolia PeerJ Academic Editor [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 4, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is well-written with the appropriate responses for the reviewer's suggestions.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
experimental design is OK with the clear description of the limitations.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results are not quite novel, but they support the previous findings well.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Influence of foetal inflammation on the development of meconium aspiration syndrome in term neonates with meconium-stained amniotic fluid (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7049v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 25, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Salvatore Andrea Mastrolia
·
Feb 12, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Authors, The Reviewers found your manuscript very interesting, however they are recommending an extensive revision in order to achieve publication. I would suggest you take into consideration the Reviewers' comments, discuss and incorporate them within your manuscript in order to reach the standard requested for publication. Best regards Salvatore Andrea Mastrolia PeerJ Academic Editor
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 11, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Basically the manuscript is relatively well written, but the result section is rather too brief. For example, there are no mention about acute-phase inflammatory reaction score in the text, even though the score 3 seems to have statistical significance in the table. It is better to describe it in detail. Please see a reference below; Hofer N, Jank K, Strenger V, Pansy J, Resch B. Inflammatory indices in meconium aspiration syndrome. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2016 Jun;51(6):601-6. doi: 10.1002/ppul.23349. Epub 2015 Dec 10. PubMed PMID: 26663621.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1. Line 53-54 “funistis and chorioamnionitis”: Based on their definition in the Methods section, the terms seem to mean acute inflammation in this study. Because there is another entity, chronic chorioamnionitis, which is not related to amniotic infection syndrome, the term “acute chorioamnionitis and funisitis” should be used through the whole text. 2. Line 117: the definition of term (neonate) is required, for example born at >=37 weeks of gestation. 3. Line 117-118 “Level II neonatal intensive care unit”: the “Level II NICU” is not familiar to non-pediatric people. Please describe it briefly. Is there any chance term neonates with meconium stained amniotic fluid do not admit to level II NICU? maybe the neonates with more severe symptoms only could be enrolled. If so, it should be described as another limitation. 4. Line 131-132 ”chorioamnionitis was defined as infiltration of neutrophils identified in chorionic plate…”: What is the reason the location of inflammation is limited to the “chorionic plate”? In general, acute chorioamnionitis is defined as neutrophil infiltration in the chorioamniotic membranes, even though acute inflammation in the chorionic plate is also considered as acute chorioamnionitis. Please confirm the diagnostic definition of acute chorioamnionitis from the pathologist of your institution.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Line 52-54: the authors said their aim was to investigate whether the incidence of MAS is associated with the presence of funisitis and chorioamnionitis, but the conclusion said some clinical variables (male sex, antenatal asphyxia) were also identified as independent variables. It is better to amend the aim or conclusion appropriately.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The results in this study supports the previous reports on MAS, however there are no definite novel findings. If clinical progression and/or treatment outcomes in detail are added in the results, readers would be more interested in the study. Line 165 “Of 99 neonates...”: it is better to describe it as “ of 99 term neonates with meconium-stained fluid…” Table footnote line 4: the details of the acute-phase inflammatory response score is not in “Table S1” but in the supplementary information. Why don’t you put it in the Method section? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Influence of foetal inflammation on the development of meconium aspiration syndrome in term neonates with meconium-stained amniotic fluid (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7049v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Viraraghavan Vadakkencherry Ramaswamy ·
Feb 12, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript has lots of grammatical errors which need to be corrected. Line 49 - “ Although asphyxia” - Asphyxia is not the sole cause for meconium passage in utero and other factors such as in utero infections, placental insufficiency, post maturity, IUGR etc are involved in MSAF/ MAS. So the sentence could be rephrased as “fetal distress and subsequent…” Line 50 - “stimulation have” - Should be changed to “stimulation has” Line 51, 52 - “occurs in the absence of asphyxia, and the presence of additional causatives such as intraamniotic inflammation has been extrapolated” -change to “ occurs due to other pathologies such as intraamniotic inflammation ” Line 57, 58 - “Dependence of MAS development on clinical variables and histopathological findings were assessed”. Modification - “ Clinical variables and histopathological findings associated with the incidence of MAS were studied” Line 64, 65 - “In neonates with meconium stained amniotic fluid, male sex and funisitis, as well as evidence of antenatal asphyxia, were identified as independent variables for MAS development” - Modification - “In neonates with meconium stained amniotic fluid, male sex ,funisitis and low 1-minute APGAR score were identified as independent variables for MAS development”. 1 minute APGAR is not a definitive indicator of antenatal asphyxia and such an inference is not appropriate Line 75 - 78 - “ In addition, advanced therapeutic regimens for severe respiratory failure using surfactant replacement, nitric oxide inhalation, and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, led to a marked decrease in mortality and morbidity associated with MAS” - Modify - The use of surfactant replacement, nitric oxide therapy and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation has lead to a marked decrease in mortality and morbidity associated with MAS in the recent times” Line 79 - “ newborn born at a “ modify - “ newborn born in a”. “Even at a” - Modify - “ Even in a “ Line 81 - “ do not provide early, precise discrimination of neonates who are likely to develop severe respiratory failure, from their peers, who only experience transient respiratory failure” Modify -“ do not provide any insights as to who are likely to develop severe respiratory failure ” Line 141 - “In our unit, routine blood tests are scheduled at admission and on day 1 for neonates with meconium- stained amniotic fluid, where blood gas analysis” modify - “In our unit, routine blood tests that are done for neonates born through MSAF are blood gas analysis, cell counts, blood sugar level, and serum inflammatory markers and these tests were done in the study subjects” Line 142 - 14 8 -“ For the inflammatory markers, elevation of C-reactive protein (CRP;>0.3 mg/dL), a1-acid glycoprotein (a1AG; >20 mg/dL), and haptoglobin (>13 mg/dl) have been routinely assessed since 1983 using turbidimetric immunoassay (Quick Turbo, Shino-Test Corporation, Japan), based on previous reports, which found early diagnostic property of these biomarkers and composite scores calculated from these values, or acute-phase inflammatory reaction score, for severe neonatal infection (Speer et al., 1983; Ipek et al., 2010; Nakamura et al., 2015) (see Article S1 for details of this composite score)”. modify - “ An acute-phase inflammatory reaction score predicting severe neonatal infection was calculated based on the values of CRP, Alpha1-acid glycoprotein and haptoglobin” Line 151 - “ First,…” modify - no need for using first. Start the sentence with “ The clinical variables were …” Line 152 - 154 - Needs to be changed. What the authors intend to say is not clear. Line 168 - “statistically invariant” modify into - “statistically not significant” Line 182 - 183 - “suggesting the importance of inflammatory and genetic factors in investigating the mechanism of MAS”. Modify - “ pointing towards the role of inflammatory and genetic factors in the pathophysiology of MAS” Line 195 - “ additional control variable” - change to “ an additional factor involved in the development of MAS” Line 229 - “ Instead, CRP, a1AG and haptoglobin were monitored at admission and on day 1, which are known to increase plasma IL- 1ßand IL-6 levels.” This sentence is confusing. It is IL 6 secreted from the neutrophils that will result in the increase in CRP production in the liver”<U+2028>232 - “Were not identified “ modify to “ were identified” 234 - “ at the timing of admission” - modify - “ at the time of admission”<U+2028> <U+2028>- References - Needs major modification. Doi is usually not included in prescribed referencing standards such as Vancouver standards.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The incidence of MAS is very high in the study group. The authors need to state the possible reason for this. Was it because MAS was over diagnosed? APGAR at 1 of <7 is not considered a low APGAR. It is not indicative of intrapartum asphyxia. Many guidelines such as ACOG take APGAR values that are much lower and at a later time as being significant. The authors have specified “high birth weight” as associated with MAS. But the difference of birth weight between the groups is only 200 - 250 grams. Though it is statistically significant, what is the clinical significance of this? Inflammatory markers are invariably elevated in MAS even without any underlying infection. Did authors look at the blood culture? That is the gold standard to diagnose sepsis. What is the utility of histopathological funisitis? It will not help in predicting MAS earlier as HP Examination will take time.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Did the authors look at the requirement of resuscitation between the two groups? Along with cord blood gas, it would have been an important variable The Wiswell definition is used to classify the severity of MAS. <40% FiO2 and less than 48 hours duration of respiratory support requirement comes under mild MAS. The authors have not included mild MAS here. Is there any specific reason why mild MAS was excluded? Was thin vs Thick meconium studied? What was the weight for gestational age status? - SGA/ IUGR Vs AGA. SGA s are a very important risk factor for MAS Why preterms were excluded? MAS does occur in preterms and may be chorioamnionitis/ funisitis play a more important role in preterm with MAS than term with MAS.
Comments for the author
The manuscript has a lot of grammatical errors and need to be revised. Cite this review as
Ramaswamy VV ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Influence of foetal inflammation on the development of meconium aspiration syndrome in term neonates with meconium-stained amniotic fluid (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7049v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 9, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
