Review History for Lung cancer incidence decreases with elevation: evidence for oxygen as an inhaled carcinogen [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Lung cancer incidence decreases with elevation: evidence for oxygen as an inhaled carcinogen To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 4th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 21st, 2014. The first revision was submitted on November 28th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on November 30th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Philip Jones
·
Nov 30, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the concerns raised in my previous comments. I am pleased to let you know that your manuscript is now accepted for publication in PeerJ. Congratulations! Philip M Jones, MD, MSc (Clin Trials), FRCPC ----
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Nov 28, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Philip Jones
·
Nov 21, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
After rejection at eLife, the authors elected to submit to PeerJ. I reviewed the eLife Reviewers' comments, the responses to these comments by the authors, and after this review I did not deem it necessary to send out for further peer review. The authors did a fantastic job at responding to the previous Reviewers' comments and criticisms, including some re-analysis of their data. This paper is an interesting and provocative epidemiological investigation using data recently made available to the public. The authors investigated the putative carcinogenic effect of higher partial pressures of oxygen (lower elevations) on the incidence of lung cancer (as well as other cancers). The authors found a potential link of higher exposure to oxygen being positively correlated to lung cancer incidence. They postulate that people living at higher elevations, due to a lower overall oxygen exposure, may have a lower incidence of lung cancer. Although any observational study is subject to residual confounding from unmeasured or unknown confounders, the authors have done a very good job with their analysis to assess this potential from multiple angles. The results were all consistent and now they provide a new topic to investigate using individual-level data in the future to strengthen support for what is, at this time, an interesting but uncertain association. I would like to congratulate the authors on performing this work to such a high standard. I have made numerous comments in the attached file (to be emailed to you seperately). I would appreciate it if the authors would go through this file and respond to each of the concerns raised. I do not think any of the concerns will be difficult to deal with. This paper will be published in PeerJ assuming a satisfactory response to the issues raised. Philip M Jones, MD MSc (Clinical Trials) FRCPC Associate Professor Department of Anesthesia & Perioperative Medicine Program in Critical Care, Department of Medicine Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics University of Western Ontario / London Health Sciences Centre
Download annotated manuscript External reviews were received for this submission. These reviews were used by the Editor when they made their decision, and can be downloaded below. Download Original Submission (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter Download external reviews
- submitted Nov 4, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
