Review History for Genetic diversity of gliadin-coding alleles in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) from Northern Kazakhstan [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Genetic diversity of gliadin-coding alleles in bread wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) from Northern Kazakhstan To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 12th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 11th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on April 30th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 7th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Yuriy Orlov
·
May 7, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the update - all the remarks were taken into account. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Julin Maloof, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 30, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Yuriy Orlov
·
Apr 11, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Actually the remarks are very minor. Please take into account suggestion by reviewer 1, and resubmit the manuscript. I recommend you also update Figure 1 - include more physical map information (about region climate), attitude, longitude, with visible numbers, rather than administrative map. Welcome re-submit the paper soon.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 28, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1. The article is written in grammatically correct, professional English. The text is clear, unequivocal and technically regular form, corresponding to professional standards of politeness and manner of expression. 2. The introduction presents very accurate and detailed results from previous investigations, which are in the context of the current study and underline its up-to-date nature. 3. The structure of the manuscript corresponds to the form in PeerJ's "Standard sections". 4. The figures are four. They are correctly numbered and well described, but Figures 2, 3 and 4 need further corrections: a / Figure 2: - to improve the quality of polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis / there is a part of the gel – an artifact in Lanes 4-5 - that disturbs the image quality. - to indicate with arrows the components /bands/ with which the three electrophoretic gliadin spektra of the polymorphic variety Lutescence 65 (Lanes 1-3) differ from one another. b / Figure 3: - above each bar on the graph, the frequency of the corresponding allele should be indicated. Recommendation: It is better the values of the frequencies of gliadin alleles to be also presented in a separate table. In this way, the exact values of the frequencies of the rare alleles will be seen. c / Figure 4: - In the "Results" section, a table of statistical parameters should be included on the basis of which the gliadin dendrogram has been obtained. 5. Unmatched data was provided in Supplementary material 1/2 in accordance with the PeerJ requirement. It is necessary to change the description of Supplementary material because the table contains data of the Gliadin allele composition of varieties/lines from Kazakhstan as well as varieties originating from other countries. In the Supplementary Material1 the origin of each variety/line should be indicated. This is necessary to demonstrate the results in Table 1 as well as the results of the cluster analysis presented in Figure 4.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Primary studies are very original and relate to the purpose and scope of the PeerJ . The main objectives / research issues are well defined. Detailed and modern up-to date research has been outlined and analyzed the results of previous studies. The following additions are required: - in the section Materials and Methods / Wheat germplasm and geographic locations it is advisable to present in a table the varieties, lines and standards included in the study along with their origin. - in the section Materials and Methods / Electrophoresis and identification of Gli alleles, it has been shown that polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was performed by the method of Metakovsky & Novoselskaya, 1991. In order to reproduce the assay according to the PeerJ requirements, it is necessary to indicate known details of how the electrophoretic method is performed in one separate laboratory, for example: the concentration of the separating polyacrylamide gel, the duration of electrophoresis, the temperature and power of the assay, the methods of fixing, the coloring/discoloration of the electrophoretic plates, and used equipment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results obtained are very well described and discussed. They are substantiated and supported by the results of previous research by the same scientific team as well as by other authors. Conclusions are well-formulated, supporting the results in conformity with the main purpose of the study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This study is very original and useful for the wheat breeding in terms of the fact that certain gliadin alleles, which are found in high frequency in varieties and lines, show very good cold-resistance, tolerance to dryness conditions and high grain quality. The results are also proven with data from the previous studies. This manuscript supports the biochemical markers based on storage proteins as an alternative method involving cheaper and simpler methods that can be successfully used by breeders to purposefully create genotypes with concentrated gliadin alleles and desirable traits. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Genetic diversity of gliadin-coding alleles in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) from Northern Kazakhstan (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7082v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Nataly Zobova ·
Apr 11, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Clear and unambiguous, professional English used throughout. Literature references, sufficient field background/context provided. Professional article structure, figures, tables. Self-contained with relevant results to hypotheses.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Original primary research within Aims and Scope of the journal. Research question well defined, relevant & meaningful. It is stated how research fills an identified knowledge gap. Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical & ethical standard. Methods described with sufficient detail & information to replicate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled. Conclusions are well stated, linked to original research question & limited to supporting results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Protein markers, such as the electrophoretic spectra of wheat gliadins, have not lost their relevance for assessing the economically valuable traits of varieties and their ecological and geographical correspondence to certain regions. Electrophoresis spectra of gliadins are not altered by environmental conditions, are easily reproducible and very useful for wheat germplasm identification in addition to DNA markers. Extensive material on the allelic composition of wheat gliadins in northern Kazakhstan and other territories has been seriously and interestingly analyzed. Cite this review as
Zobova N ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Genetic diversity of gliadin-coding alleles in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) from Northern Kazakhstan (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7082v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 12, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
