Review History for T cell receptor signaling pathway and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction affect the rehabilitation process after respiratory syncytial virus infection [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History T cell receptor signaling pathway and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction affect the rehabilitation process after respiratory syncytial virus infection To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 14th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 18th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on April 27th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 7th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Howard Young
·
May 7, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your submission. Your responses to the reviewer comments have been accepted. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Pedro Silva, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 27, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Howard Young
·
Feb 18, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Thank you for submitting your article and I apologize for the length of time the reviews have taken. Some concerns have been raised by the reviewers, especially reviewer #2 and I ask that you address the concerns.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 29, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Pass. The manuscript is in clear and unambiguous English. Need improved proofreading due to some grammarical errors.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The acute and relapsing phase data seem from different patients. Is there a way to include same patient acute vs. relapsing dataset? Pass
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "T cell receptor signaling pathway and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction affect the rehabilitation process after respiratory syncytial virus infection (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7089v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 14, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
•Qian et al. have pulled an RSV patient sample dataset from Jong et al. 2016 (E-MTAB-5195) to compare gene changes between 39 acute phase samples vs. 21 recovery timepoint samples. In this reinterpretation of the Jong et al. dataset, the authors have identified genes that associate with the sample time-point (RNA set 1) and staging (RNA set 2). In RSV infection, a subset of individuals will be hospitalized due to severe infection complications and the Jong et al. 2016 dataset is taken specifically from individuals who are hospitalized. The authors should clarify these points and add additional information to the introduction to discuss hospitalization and severe RSV infection. •The authors provide an immunological background of long-noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) and immune mediators in the context of RSV. The authors should more clearly define what is known between acute and recovery stages of the in the introduction. This information will help shape their overall goal of assessing acute vs recovered patient samples.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
•The authors have clearly stated the forms of analysis and corresponding programs that were utilized for the analysis of the Jong et al. 2016 dataset. However, the authors do not discuss how their analysis differs from the Jong et al. 2016 report. For instance, why have the authors chosen a cutoff of “|log fold change (FC)| < 0.263” compared to the Jong et al. 2016 cutoff of “absolute fold change (FC) threshold of 2”? The authors should clearly define the reasoning for their choices and compare these to the primary Jong et al. 2016 analysis to differentiate their analyses. •“RNA set 1” and “RNA set 2”, and the relationship to the color modules, are not clearly defined early in the paper. The color modules are not clearly defined in the paper. Please provide additional information on how these groups are generated, different, and defined earlier in the paper.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
•Qian et al. have performed differential gene analysis on the Jong et al. 2016 dataset to define differences between acute infected samples and recovery samples. As part of this analysis, Qian at al. have identified a unique set of genes that are different between acute vs recovery that may help inform rehabilitation mechanisms during RSV infection. However, there are key deficiencies in the analysis and discussion of the reinterpretation of the Jong el al. 2016 dataset. The Jong et al. 2016 dataset split hospitalized RSV patients into several categories that affected clustering including: age, sex, mild RSV, moderate RSV, and severe RSV. The authors have not commented how their data analysis took these factors into account. Jong et al. demonstrated that healthy controls and recovered samples are similar (1 differential expressed gene), and it is unclear how the authors analysis of acute vs recovered samples differs from the Jong et al. analysis to healthy controls. Please provide additional information how the analysis and findings of the study herein compare to the Jong et al. 2016 study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
•Qian et al. have provided an extended analysis of acute RSV infected samples vs recovery samples from the Jong et al. 2016 study (E-MTAB-5195). The differentially regulated genes identified in this study are discussed in the context of immune responses that might foster the rehabilitation process. However, it is not clear how the results herein are different from the Jong et al. analysis of the same data set. Further, the authors do not discuss why their analysis yielded a different set of differentially expressed genes than the Jong et al. study. •Taken together, at this time this manuscript is not suitable for publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "T cell receptor signaling pathway and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction affect the rehabilitation process after respiratory syncytial virus infection (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7089v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Feb 17, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
In this manuscript the authors utilized a pre-existing dataset obtained from a previously published study to examine the blood samples from infants undergoing an acute RSV infection as well as samples obtained following resolution of the infection. A total of 2489 differentially expressed RNAs were identified between the acute and recovery phase of the infection and were further interrogated using pathway analyses. Several RNAs associated were T cell receptor signaling were identified that may be involved in the recovery phase as well as RNAs involved in the IL-1 and IL-18 cytokine and cytokine signaling pathways.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The experimental design is straightforward analysis of a pre-existing dataset generated from a previous study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No comment.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "T cell receptor signaling pathway and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction affect the rehabilitation process after respiratory syncytial virus infection (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7089v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 14, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
