Review History for Predicting and mapping soil available water capacity in Korea [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Predicting and mapping soil available water capacity in Korea To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 13th, 2012 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 21st, 2012. The first revision was submitted on February 13th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on March 26th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 2nd, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Coen Ritsema
·
Apr 2, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am pleased that all remarks and suggestions of the reviewers have been addressed accordingly by the authors, and trust that the final version of the paper will be of interest to a wide.range of scientists involved in soil and water related disciplines.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 26, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Coen Ritsema
·
Mar 13, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The current version of the paper is almost acceptable for publication, and the reviewers comments have been addressed adequately. The only points which need to be clarified and resolved are: * The missing Figure Captions. * With this regard, it is also unclear what the line is representing in Figure 2. Is that the relationship between bulk density and organic matter content for Andisols, derived on basis of the data of Tempel et al (1996), and represented by equation 7 in the manuscript? * In the paper Figures 6 and 7 are not referred to. Either delete these figures, or clearly discuss these figures in the paper. These relatively minor points need to be addressed before the paper can be published.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 13, 2013
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Coen Ritsema
·
Dec 21, 2012
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Authors, This is a potentially interesting paper, however, some serious revisions are required. Firstly, pay due attention to explaining and estimating the degree of uncertainty of presented results, this is really essential to better value the paper output. Secondly, I would encourage the authors to include some new additional material in the paper to validate obtained results through comparing these with acquired field measurement data, at least for some of the major Korean soil types. Thirdly, as indicated by the two reviewers, include only the really essential Figures and Tables and delete all others accordingly.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 4, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Please use line numbering. Page 2: please check the language(e.g. ‘was’ used, where ‘were’ is meant, ‘developed of pedotransfer’ delete the ‘of’ etc.). Page 10: Here, you apparently mixed the numbering of tables, please check this. Page 11: The same as previous, but here is something wrong with the Figure numbering. Page 12, here as well some mixing of table numbers, 5 is meant where 4 is written.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors present a methodology to predict, based on limited and partly inadequate data, available soil water content. Pedo-transfer functions are used to fill the gaps, and a map showing the AWC is presented. The approach of the study is feasible, but the authors should indicate the uncertainty of the methodology better.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In general ok, but see remarks in 'general comments to author' section Page 2: about 15 lines from bottom: in what way has soil water retention a major impact on climate? Please change this, since Dunne and Willmott (1996) do not state this in their article, they state that ‘…soil moisture … is the main source of water for plant development and terrestrial evapotranspiration. Evapotranspiration and soil moisture, in turn, are sensitive to the potential amount of water the soil can hold and make available to the atmosphere’. Page 6, last part: Romano et al did NOT state that field capacity depends on its water conductivity. In fact, if you think it is you should explain this, since this sounds strange to me. Page 6: you did not define your AWC, but apparently you use the water content between -10 and -1500 kPa. Why not from -33 - -1500 kPa, as is suggested in Romona et al, 2011, being the average between the two estimated extremes (-10 for coarse and -50 for fine medium). Page 14, in the conclusion you write in the end about uncertainty. This part belongs to the discussion, and should have more focus. I realize that limited resources cause lack of possibility to quantify the uncertainty, but you should be able to indicate al sources that affect the uncertainty in your procedure. So, not only uncertainty in the map, but also in your methodology of using PTF’s at several stages.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Specific remarks: Page 3: second paragraph: please indicate why you develop PTF’s yourself, and don’t use existing functions. Page 3. Include a figure with location of Korea. Page 12: Can you indicate the consequences of your remark about Andisols (last sentence, third paragraph)? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Predicting and mapping soil available water capacity in Korea (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.71v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Henk Wosten ·
Nov 18, 2012
Basic reporting
label_br_2
•The paper is well structured and pleasant to read, however, it could be improved with the help of an English corrector. •On page 10 Table 1 is mentioned, presumably this must be Table 3 as this table shows the statistics.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Overall the paper presents a nice conceptual framework as also illustrated in Figure 1, how to proceed from an existing soil map to a map showing available water. However, in the case of Korea substantial data gaps do exist. At present these gaps are filled with pedotransfer functions which often have been derived from different data sources. The price to be paid for these knowledge gaps is probably a considerable uncertainty in the predictions made.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
•The biggest problem with the paper is that is couples a number of uncertainties by using PTFs with as final result conclusions that could be very uncertain. For instance, equations 5 and 6 predict bulk densities for non-Korean soils. Next, the bulk densities are used in equation 9 to adjust the field capacity measured on grounded soil material to field capacity for structured soils. In doing this a relationship derived for American soils is used. Next field capacities and wilting points are used to predict soil available water for Korean soils. In this whole process is should be made clear how the uncertainties in the separate PTF steps are influencing the uncertainty in the final estimate of soil available water. •The PAWC map for Korea is not validated because no measured data exist to do so. The most that is achieved is that AWC values calculated for Korean soils are compared to similar data for American soils. Based on this some general trends can be compared (page 12). As a result, it would be good to state that the map provides some indicative estimates which best can be presented in classes as is also done in Figure 5 of the map. •Given all uncertainties presenting mean PAWC values as is done in Tables 7 and 8 is not encouraged. •Validation of the map refers really to a validation of the soil map and not to the PAWC map. This could be stated more clearly.
Cite this review as
Wosten H ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Predicting and mapping soil available water capacity in Korea (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.71v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 13, 2012 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
