Review History for Altitudinal gradients in Magellanic sub-Antarctic lagoons: the effect of elevation on freshwater macroinvertebrate diversity and distribution [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Altitudinal gradients in Magellanic sub-Antarctic lagoons: the effect of elevation on freshwater macroinvertebrate diversity and distribution To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 1st, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 2nd, 2019. The first revision was submitted on May 11th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 15th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mark Costello
·
May 15, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for attending to the minor corrections noted by the referees and addressing their comments. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Dezene Huber, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 11, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mark Costello
·
Apr 2, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for a very well prepared and interesting paper. The three referees make several complimentary remarks and provide some suggestions for you to consider to improve it.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 25, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This article is written in a easy and clear form, and have the structure of a cientific investigation. It uses the appropiate literatura, and demostrate that the cientific group dominates the topic. The figures that they used are very good. Please write always et al in italics. The figure 2 indicates temperatura between february 2015 to march 2016, it must be congruent with the methogology described (there, the autor indicates from March 2015-abril 2016). All the proposed target are well met.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is clear and concise, and it leads to obtaining and answering the questions listed In future, it would be appreciate if the studies include also other chemical parameters, such as MODC (material organic disolved colored), ortophosphate, phosphorous total, Nitrogen total, NH4, NO3, NO2. We know that with all antropic activities, the values ot this parameters will increase in time, so it is necessary to have a baseline.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The statistics test are well used and are appropiate to answer the questions.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I congratulate the authors because of the effort shown in this study, and they have shown that good results can be achieved with basic tools. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Altitudinal gradients in Magellanic sub-Antarctic lagoons: the effect of elevation on freshwater macroinvertebrate diversity and distribution (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7128v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Roberto Vogler ·
Mar 28, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is an interesting and very nice study in which authors assessed freshwater macroinvertebrates communities in lentic environments along an altitudinal gradient in southern South America. The manuscript is well written, clear and concise, figures are high quality and methods are technically sound. I strongly recommend it for publication.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
It’s a descriptive study. Methods are adequate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Authors provide a description of richness and composition of macroinvertebrates communities along the altitudinal gradient examined. They found that elevation has substantial effects on community structure and function. This information is very welcome for the study area.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Some minor comments: Figure 1: Although not incorrect, I suggest converting geographic units from UTM to degrees (Decimal Degrees or Degrees, Minutes, Seconds) for easy referencing, since the authors express the location of the Magellanic Sub-Antartic region using degrees (introduction: lines 69 to 72). This would apply also to coordinates provided in Table 1. Table 2: Please check the superscript in cm2. Tables 4 & 5: I suggest including the meaning of column headings within the abbreviations in the legends. Cite this review as
Vogler RE ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Altitudinal gradients in Magellanic sub-Antarctic lagoons: the effect of elevation on freshwater macroinvertebrate diversity and distribution (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7128v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Carlos Molineri ·
Apr 1, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The text is unambiguously written in technically correct English. Background, relevant literature and article structure is appropriate. Figures and tables conform to an acceptable format. The results are only partly relevant to fulfill the aims because of reduced sampling coverage (please see experimental design).
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research is original and falls within the aims and scope of the journal. Its goal is to describe and compare aquatic macroinvertebrate communities along altitudinal gradients on Magellanic sub-Antarctic lagoons. Four lakes/ponds along an altitudinal gradient of 680 m (lower site 20m, highest 700m) were sampled in one occasion. The relevance of the goal relates to the harsh and poorly known environment sampled, and constitutes a great effort to fill the gap in basic knowledge of the area. Nevertheless the number of gradients (transects) and sites (and probably sampling dates too, depending on hydrologic regime) should be increased to attain the objectives. Random noise caused by absence of replication and reduced sample size (number of sites, dates and gradients) could cause spurious or inconsistent results that do not conform to the regional diversity pattern.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Methods are described with sufficient detail except the following points: 1) Biological sampling consisted of a "standard sampling" (1 min of net sweeping in four predefined habitats) and a "complementary collection" to "get a comparable and representative sample of each habitat". All samples were analyzed together. The standard sampling is comparable between sites, since they were standardized by time (minutes of net sweeping) but are not readily comparable with other studies that mainly use densities (standardized by area). The complementary collection may vary between sites so even inside the reduced sampling universe of this study, they are not comparable. The authors should compare sites only if similar sampling effort were carried out. 2) The method followed to assign each taxon to its corresponding functional feeding group (FFG) is not mentioned. For example, in the results, figure and table it can be read that the mayfly found in this study (Meridialaris chiloeensis) was assigned to the shredder category, but published works (e.g., Diaz Villanueva & Modenutti 2004, DOI: 10.1002/iroh.200310694) have determined Meridialaris chiloeensis to be a grazer. The assignation of remaining taxa should be also checked. Two ways of facing the assignation of taxa are commonly used: 1) assignation by bibliography (e.g, Rodriguez et al 2011 Rev. Biol. Trop 59: 1537-1552 ), and 2) gut content analyses (e.g., Tomanova et al. 2006, Hydrobiologia, 556, 251-264). If the first is the case it is recommendable to use regional literature since geographic variations in diets are commonly reported. The second approximation is undoubtedly more accurate, since any particularity of the regional fauna or differences between instars of a given taxon can be readily acknowledged. The manuscript should be completed with this information. An introductory paragraph about the relevance of FFG to attain the proposed objectives would be welcomed as additional background. Conclusions would gain strength and wider validity if more gradients (and sites) are added to the study.
Cite this review as
Molineri C ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Altitudinal gradients in Magellanic sub-Antarctic lagoons: the effect of elevation on freshwater macroinvertebrate diversity and distribution (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7128v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 1, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
