Review History for Comprehensive analysis of an lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA competing endogenous RNA network in pulpitis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Comprehensive analysis of an lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA competing endogenous RNA network in pulpitis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 20th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 18th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on April 30th, 2019 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 17th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Rogerio Sotelo-Mundo
·
May 17, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have addressed all the questions from the reviewers and have improved the final version. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Keith Crandall, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
label_author_1
Anna González Rascón ·
May 15, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Redaction is unambiguous and professional. Correction from authors on previous comments has brought the previously needed references and background to support their statements and findings.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design was improved with rtqPCR validation. I agree with authors that in vitro establishment of an in vitro pulpitis model could differ highly from in vivo sampling since there are so many variables involved in the process it is impossible to model it accurately enough. This study describes with sufficient detail the bioinformatic approach to analyze this inflammatory state and could serve as a platform to develop future studies involving cell culture and specific gene validations of the proposed regulatory hub.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Conclusions are well stated, highly improved discussion and conclusions with corrections from reviewers comments. The information contained in this article will benefit literature and hopefully encourage the scientific community to continue the study of regulation networks relating to non-coding RNAs in different inflammatory states, this is helpful to design and develop more effective therapies.
Cite this review as
González Rascón A ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Comprehensive analysis of an lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA competing endogenous RNA network in pulpitis (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7135v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 30, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Rogerio Sotelo-Mundo
·
Mar 18, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please submit a detailed point-by-point answer to the reviewers, in particular abot the novelty of the work besides donde in pulp tissue. An important point is to elaborate on the role of lnRNA in immune response. One of the reviewers is not convinced of the presence of a hub gene in the network, please elaborate in detail. I concur that the manuscript is well written and and very novel, so I encourage to present a revised version of your contribution. For ease of review, please include a version of the revised manuscript with track changes to identify the modifications on the document.
label_author_2
Anna González Rascón ·
Mar 13, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
1. I suggest detailing further on non-coding RNAs modulating immune responses via post-transcriptional regulation. For example, miR-146a and miR-155 work in a feedback manner to maintain immunological homeostasis. It would be a plus if the authors could relate the state of the art of postranscriptional regulation of microRNAs, specifying on miR-455. This would round up the whole idea introductory idea. 2. A more detailed figure description and including labels from the main steps on Figure 1, as in “Step 1, Step 2... etc.”, can make it easier to the reader to analyze the diagram without recurring to reading the whole document. 3. Figure 2: On Figure 2-A, adding a label that read “Regulation:” before the symbol list from “Down, Not, Up” could help for better understanding by only looking at the figure. 4. Name on Figure 3 seems misleading. It reads "Top 10 processes revealed in GO enrichment analysis of clusters of the upregulated DEGs." but it apparently show top 10 processes of 3 categories, so maybe stating it as "Top 10 processes revealed in GO enrichment to influence biological process (BP), molecular function (MF), and cellular component (CC).” could guide readers to better analyze the information. 6. Line 359 Has a red mark on a reference
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The study and its findings are very interesting. I advise the authors to describe a little bit further about the relation of noncoding RNAs in immunological modulation. This will nicely round up your discussion and conclusions.
Cite this review as
González Rascón A ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Comprehensive analysis of an lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA competing endogenous RNA network in pulpitis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7135v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 15, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
1.The manuscript is clearly written in professional english. 2. The format of the manuscript is meet the standard of Peer J. They provided sufficient background and literates. 3.Figures quality is OK.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
1.The experiment design is only based on bio-informatics analysis. It is strongly suggested to add some experimental data to validate your conclusion. 2. The original research meets the Aims and Scope of the journal. 3.Research question is well defined and meaningful. However, it is hard to say whether the conclusion of the manuscript is right or not and whether the hypothesis fills an identified knowledge gap. 4. Methods provide the enough information to replicate. 5.Routine technology is used for the investigate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
It is very hard to evaluate the novelty of the manuscript now. The conclusion is not very convincing. The authors selected 10 hub genes including IL6, IL8, PTPRC, IL1B, TLR2, ITGAM, CCL2, PIK3CG, ICAM1, and PIK3CD. However, they built a ceRNA network is In the PVT1-hsa-miR-455-5p-SOCS3 and PLXNC1. There is no hub gene at all. In addition, it is strongly suggested the authors do some experiments to evaluate your conclusion in pulptitis tissues and dental pulp cells.
Comments for the author
In Figure 2 B, please replace “code name” by real gene name. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Comprehensive analysis of an lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA competing endogenous RNA network in pulpitis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7135v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 20, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
