Review History for Effect of insecticide formulation and adjuvant combination on agricultural spray drift [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effect of insecticide formulation and adjuvant combination on agricultural spray drift To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 6th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 14th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on May 14th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 17th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Todd Anderson
·
May 17, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Nice job on the revisions and your responses to reviewer comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 14, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Todd Anderson
·
Feb 14, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers were complimentary of your work, but there are some comments that they would like to see you address in your revisions. Please note also that one of the reviewers has provided an annotated manuscript.
label_author_1
Marcello Biocca ·
Feb 7, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper “Effect of insecticide formulation and adjuvant combination on agricultural spray drift” focuses on the role of some adjuvants as contributing factor to reduce the drift of sprayed insecticides. The topic is relevant and interesting, and the study contributes to the knowledge of the drift phenomenon. Results are clearly reported and coherently discussed. The text is clear and well understandable. In general, the paper is relevant for its publication on PeerJ. Some minor changes for “Material and methods” and “Discussion” chapters and for the Figures are suggested to the Authors.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Experimental design, mainly based on Standard protocols, is accurately described and the statistical analysis of data seems correct. However, I need to clarify some points about the experimental methods. I am adding some comments for the Authors.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In general, the results mainly confirm previous findings on this topic; however, Authors clearly discuss both the points of novelty and of weakness of their work, coherently with the data obtained in the experiments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
•To improve the clarity of the paper, I suggest dividing the “Material and Methods” chapter (that is very long) in sub-paragraphs (for example: 1- field trial, 2 – ground deposition; 3- vertical deposition up to n – statistical methods). •Some abbreviations have to be explained when they appear for the first time in the text (i.e. CI for Confidence Interval). •Please, check superscript and subscript numbers in formulae and equations (H2O, cm2, etc). •I think that the “Discussion” part can be partly reorganized, starting from some general statements about the work to more specific comments. Please, consider moving the lines 456-464 to the beginning of the “Discussion” section. •Figures 2 and 3 are not very readable: it was difficult for me to distinguish the single curves and the grey area of the confidence interval make the lines less clear. I suggest trying to redesign the curves, for example plotting the CI with a fine bar than with an area. •In Figure 1, I don’t find the black rectangles mentioned in the caption. •In the Abstract (line 26) you mentioned that “the drift was reduced by as much as 37% by formulation type alone and reached 63% by incorporating certain spray adjuvant”. Firstly, I didn’t find the data of 37% reduction along the text. Please, could you put this finding more evident in the text or in a table that includes a summary of the relative effects (in %) of the treatments on the drift reduction? Then, I think that this sentence is clearer by dividing the effects of adjuvants on the drift from the intrinsic value of drift of each formulation type (it is a given characteristic of the formulation itself). •Line 472: is it correctly placed? •Line 151: what is a size of 50 mesh for the nozzle? •Lines 182-184: is the area of each sampling point calculated according to a Standard protocol? Why the sampling points does not fall in the center of the range shown in Table 1? (I am sorry for the last dumb question, probably it depends from the fact that I didn’t catch perfectly the sampling scheme). •Lines 263-269: in the efficacy test, you used a parametric method (ANOVA) to analyze the data of insect mortality. To me, it appears very improbable that this kind of data meet the assumption of normality. Please, check the data distribution normality and, if necessary, consider a non-parametric method to analyze data. Cite this review as
Biocca M ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effect of insecticide formulation and adjuvant combination on agricultural spray drift (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7136v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 13, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This submission meets all basic reporting criteria. It is especially well written and clear. The article includes sufficient introduction, however, the introductory paragraphs summarize a lot of detailed information that are not common knowledge for most readers, so a few more citations would be useful here.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This is a good piece of original research. The research rational, hypotheses and experimental approach are clearly detailed. The methods are described in especially good detail and are very unambiguous. But here are a few points of clarification that would be useful. First, lines 99-100 mention subsamples were averaged. Just to be clear, subsamples were not analyzed as part of the model? And why not if subsampling was used as part of the design? Beginning line 164, please clarify timing of fluorometer measurements post-sampling and/or correction of results for degradation that may have occurred prior to analysis. Log transformation for analysis and then reporting results for the untransformed finding are always problematic in terms of interpretation, especially when continuous findings are reported. For instance, line 306 and figure 2 are summarizing predicted trends in deposition as a function of distance – both were log transformed for analysis, so do the trends still hold as presented when untransformed? Similarly, the regression equation is developed for log VMD and results are reported for change in VMD as a function of RH (line 370) and windspeed (Figure 3) – how was transformation and back transformation of analysis handled? Some clarification in the methods or results would be useful.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
There are no issues with the findings. The data are robust, statistically sound (see possible exception above), and controlled.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Nice piece of work. A lot of good deal of effort went into these results. I addition to comments here, the annotated manuscript points out a few minor things. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effect of insecticide formulation and adjuvant combination on agricultural spray drift (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7136v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 6, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
