Review History for Importance of active layer freeze-thaw cycles on the riverine dissolved carbon export on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau permafrost region [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Importance of active layer freeze-thaw cycles on the riverine dissolved carbon export on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau permafrost region To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 3rd, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 3rd, 2019. The first revision was submitted on May 17th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 19th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Hong Yang
·
May 19, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
This MS has made contribution of our understnding of C cycle in Tibetan Plateau. In the revised version, you have made changes and your MS meets the publication standard.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 17, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Hong Yang
·
May 3, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
This MS provides some new findings of C in rives in Tibetan Plateau which is very sensitive to climate change. Before the MS can be accepted, several minor changes are needed. Authors should carefully compare your findings with published results, particularly the different results about DOC and DIC. A good explanation about the possible reasons for the differences in C content is needed. A thorough English editing is also needed. []
label_author_1
Siyue Li ·
Apr 15, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
See general comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
See general comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Comment to“Importance of active layer freeze-thaw cycles on the riverine dissolved carbon export on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau permafrost region” In the context of global warming, the active layer and permafrost in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau (QTP) are experiencing quick change, the severe permafrost degradation shows great effects on hydrological and biogeochemical processes, however, riverine dissolved carbon transport changes and their responses to freeze-thaw cycles remains poor. Authors used data in thaw and freeze seasons of 2014 and 2016, DIC and DOC concentrations and fluxes and their relationships with freeze-thaw cycles were consequently unveiled following a hypothesis. Generally, the Ms is interesting and provides good data of riverine C in the permafrost region. The structure, figure and Tables look good. While English should be improved (I have given some specific suggestions as follows). Methods were well described with sufficient detail while hypothesis should be well stated and should be more meaningful. The authors get main findings of fluxes, concentrations and relative importance of DIC and DOC relating to thawing and freezing process. i.e., As the freezing process, DIC and DOC concentrations increased, while their fluxes decreased. As the thawing process, fluxes and concentrations of dissolved C increased. Authors discussed their patterns and controls, and also compared to other studies, while I think authors also should related to contrary patterns of other studies (i.e., L81-82 Thawing of active layer could result in the decrease of DOC and increase of DIC due to DOC mineralization and respiration (Drake et al., 2015; Striegl et al., 2005; 2007; L102-103 A previous study at northern QTP found that DOC export decreased as thaw depth increased (Mu et al., 2017). What resulted in the different results?. Methods Authors must clarify the measurements of thawed depth, frozen depth, land use composition etc. Some specific comments including languages. L 33 delete “while” L43 change “was highly depended on” to “was highly dependent on” L44 Please rewrite L56 Please check L67 Maybe change “Riverine exported carbon” “riverine carbon” or “riverine carbon export”? L68 “according to studies conducted in a variety of scales and locations”, these words do not make sense, please delete L79 “deepen”? L85-87 Please re-organise L106-107 Hypothesis testing is good, please be more clear L127 What is the highest temperature? Please show the number L136 Please Check the citation L149 Your findings of major ions? L155-157 I can not catch the sentence L174 Please need to re-organize L186 maybe “after sampling” There are many typos such as the format of citations: L306, L313, L321, L327 any problem of citation? while I can not point out all issues Tables Table 1 Please indicate that how to get the catchment characteristics (i.e., land use composition) Table 3 Please indicate the significant difference between DOC and DIC? Figures Fig S5 There are no plots in the ternary diagram? Cite this review as
Li S ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Importance of active layer freeze-thaw cycles on the riverine dissolved carbon export on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau permafrost region (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7146v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 15, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
When I am reviewing manuscripts, I usually raise several major comments and then give 2 or 3 pages of minor comments. But I read this manuscript, I found the field work was solid,and the manuscript was well organized, the data have been properly analyzed, and the conclusions were interesting. It is a pleasure to review this manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experiments were designed rigorously.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
It is interesting, and the results were in agreement with our expectations.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
There are only minor suggestions for the authors, which I think they can do this work during the proof stage, so I need not see the revised version. L76-77. Delete this sentence. L77, The deepening AL could. You need not to repeat the seasonal thawed active layer. L86, I would prefer passive voice. L89, Seasonal change in soil thaw depth. The active layer is almost the same as the deepest thaw depth in the autumn. L94, the largest. Not the only. Even in Hawaii, there is permafrost. L94 wrong citation. It is Zou et al. 2017. L97. There are several other reports, such as Zhao et al., 2018, Mu et al., 2015. Although Ding reported the SOC pools using SVM, there are also large uncertainties. For example, they used the kriging method to retrieve the spatial soil particle distribution, which is unacceptable. L103, while it is unknown about the DIC exports changes during the freeze-thaw cycles in AL. L107, delete potential. L113-115. Remove these sentences. L479, delete “since…freeze”. L486, Climate warming-induced permafrost degradation may result in higher disturbance of permafrost carbon L490 Connections-----relationships L491. Delete this sentence. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Importance of active layer freeze-thaw cycles on the riverine dissolved carbon export on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau permafrost region (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7146v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Y. Jun Xu ·
Apr 29, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This is an interesting, solidly executed pieces of work. The topic is of relevance and the findings should be of interest to the international readership. The methodological approach is appropriate and is sufficiently described. The data are well presented and discussed, and the conclusions drawn are supported by the findings. The paper can be accepted after a thorough language editing.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The study design is appropriate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The findings are justifiable.
Comments for the author
This is an interesting, solidly executed pieces of work and I enjoyed reading it. The topic is of relevance and the findings should be of interest to the international readership. The methodological approach is appropriate and is sufficiently described. The data are well presented and discussed, and the conclusions drawn are supported by the findings. The paper needs, however, a thorough language editing before it can be published. Below are just a couple of examples of grammar/usage errors: Line 30: Change “riverine exported carbon” to “riverine carbon export” Line 32: Add “the” before “central QTP” Lines 37-39: The sentence reads awkward. You may rephrase it to something like: “Spatially, DIC and DOC concentrations were positively correlated with vegetation coverage and were lowest in bare land.” Line 45: Change “in QTP” to “in the QTP” Line 192: Runkel et al 2004 is missing in Refs. Figure 3 caption: Do you mean monthly average fluxes in kg per day? Please be clear. Figure 3 caption: Is monthly mean discharge or actually total monthly runoff and precipitation? Cite this review as
Xu YJ ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Importance of active layer freeze-thaw cycles on the riverine dissolved carbon export on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau permafrost region (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7146v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 3, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
