Review History for Ontogenetic scaling patterns and functional anatomy of the pelvic limb musculature in emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Ontogenetic scaling patterns and functional anatomy of the pelvic limb musculature in emus ( Dromaius novaehollandiae ) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on September 18th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 12th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on December 4th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 10th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Scott Edwards
·
Dec 10, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
After reviewing the rebuttal letter and the revised manuscript, I feel you have adequately addressed the reviewers comments, and I am pleased to recommend acceptance of your article to PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 4, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Scott Edwards
·
Oct 12, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I have received two reviews of your paper. Both reviews found the paper a worthwhile contribution. Review 1 made minor editorial comments directly on the manuscript and overall liked the paper. However, reviewer 2 felt that the overall writing of the paper could be improved and the manuscript shortened. This review also had concerns about data analysis and redundancy between text and tables. As a result, I may need to send out your revised manuscript for additional review. Please take care to document your changes and responses to the reviewers extensively.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 11, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The basic reporting of the information in this paper is not acceptable for publication. In general it is poorly written and the entire paper can be made much more concise. The results section is a tedious description of the all of the information contained in the tables, which is not necessary. For example, it is not necessary to discuss the range of confidence intervals for each parameter - simply state whether or not there was substantial variation. Throughout the manuscript, several sentence are awkward and confusing and many statements in the Discussion are not supported. A more meaningful interpretation of the findings in the Discussion would also greatly improve the impact of this study. Overall, I do believe this manuscript can reach publication quality writing with the input of the senior authors on the paper.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design of the study is sound and leverages work done by two groups. I believe this is a strength of the paper.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
There is one fundamental flaw in the data as reported that must be addressed before the manuscript can be accepted. Specifically, in is inappropriate to normalize the data presented in figure 4 and discussed on lines 245 - 253 (page numbers would be helpful in the future) by isometric values. Given the substantial allometric scaling patterns reported in this study, normalizing parameters such as muscle mass by body mass heavily skews the data for towards larger animals. This normalization adds little to the study and should be removed completely.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall, this is a data rich study that I feel will be valuable to the scientific community. However, it must be substantially revised before it is acceptable for publication. The entire manuscript can be made much more concise and I feel that the paper would benefit greatly from a more organized and in depth interpretation of the finding. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2014 ) Peer Review #1 of "Ontogenetic scaling patterns and functional anatomy of the pelvic limb musculature in emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.716v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Trevor Worthy ·
Oct 11, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
OK
Experimental design
label_ed_2
OK
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
OK
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Please see attached file for suggestions Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Worthy TH ( 2014 ) Peer Review #2 of "Ontogenetic scaling patterns and functional anatomy of the pelvic limb musculature in emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.716v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Sep 18, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
