Review History for Freshwater reservoir offsets on radiocarbon-dated dog bone from the headwaters of the St. Lawrence River, USA [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Freshwater reservoir offsets on radiocarbon-dated dog bone from the headwaters of the St. Lawrence River, USA To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 20th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 19th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on May 10th, 2019 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 23rd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joanna Moraczewska
·
May 23, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
All concerns of the reviewers were answered and the manuscript was improved. Please work with the production office to make the corrections suggested by the reviewer of your revised manuscript. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Pedro Silva, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
label_author_1
John Meadows ·
May 21, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
all good, except for 2 text edits; line 133 - insert "fish", i.e. "For example, fish isotope values were..." line 170 - the square root sign should be outside the bracket
Experimental design
label_ed_1
all good
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
all good
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I have checked all the revisions and rebuttal comments and I am satisfied that the authors have addressed all my concerns Cite this review as
Meadows J ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Freshwater reservoir offsets on radiocarbon-dated dog bone from the headwaters of the St. Lawrence River, USA (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7174v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 10, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joanna Moraczewska
·
Apr 19, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The manuscript is interesting, but as pointed by the reviewers, it needs few changes. In the rebuttal letter, please respond to all comments of the reviewers. # PeerJ Staff Note: It is PeerJ policy that additional references suggested during the peer-review process should only be included if the authors are in agreement that they are relevant and useful #
label_author_2
John Meadows ·
Apr 9, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
I have made a small number of suggestions for improving the clarity of the English.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
I have noted a couple of small mistakes in formulae used, which do not however affect the interpretation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Compared to other research in this field, including my own, the data set seems pretty robust. I have raised a couple of questions about the applicability of the published data used to interpret the new results - which I think the authors will be able to address.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
please see the uploaded PDF version of my comments Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Meadows J ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Freshwater reservoir offsets on radiocarbon-dated dog bone from the headwaters of the St. Lawrence River, USA (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7174v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Bente Philippsen ·
Apr 19, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Language: no comments. References/background: In the Introduction (see lines 42-43), the discussion about the suitability of dog diet as proxy for human diet could be expanded. I attach a few references with arguments for (Noe-Nygaard 1988, Clutton-Brock and Noe-Nygaard 1990) and against (Eriksson & Zagorska 2003; Fischer et al. 2007: Fig. 5B and 5C) this approach. Some of these were already referred to in Edwards et al. 2017, which you cite in the Introduction. Noe-Nygaard N. 1988. <U+F064>13C-values of dog bones reveal the nature of changes in man's food resources at the mesolithic-neolithic transition, Denmark. Chemical Geology: Isotope Geoscience section 73(1):87-96. Eriksson G, Zagorska I. 2003. Do dogs eat like humans? Marine stable isotope signals in dog teeth from inland Zvejnieki. In: Larsson L, Kindgren H, Knuttson K, Loefler D, Åkerlund A, editors. Mesolithic on the Move. Papers presented at the Sixth International Conference on the Mesolithic in Europe. Oxford: Oxbow Books. p 160-8. Fischer A, Olsen J, Richards M, Heinemeier J, Sveinbjörnsdottir ÁE, Bennike P. 2007. Coast-inland mobility and diet in the Danish Mesolithic and Neolithic: evidence from stable isotope values of humans and dogs. Journal of Archaeological Science 34:2125-50. Juliet Clutton-Brock, Nanna Noe-Nygaard. 1990. New osteological and C-isotope evidence on Mesolithic dogs: Companions to hunters and fishers at Star Carr, Seamer Carr and Kongemose. Journal of Archaeological Science, Volume 17, Issue 6, Pages 643-653. Structure/figures/tables/raw data: In Figure 2, there are several instances of one symbol that I do not understand nor find in the caption: A diamond overlain by the blue triangle, which is the symbol for turkey. Of course, this could happen accidentally in cases where e.g. a mammal has exactly the same isotope ratios as a turkey sample – but not so often, I assume. Please check. In Figure 2 as well as in the caption of Figure 2, please indicate relative to which standard the d13C and d15N values are presented (e.g., “d15N (‰ AIR)”). From the manuscript in its current form, I do not understand why it is necessary for your FRO analysis to calibrate the radiocarbon ages, e.g. using phase models or KDE plots in Figure 3. You write in line 157 that you use phase and KDE plots to graphically display the modelling results. However, there must be another reason for these calculations – please state it clearly either in the methods section or in the caption of Figure 3. As mentioned later, I think it is best to perform FRO calculations in 14C space, not calendar age space. However, I think it is useful, as you did in Table 3, to model your results with and without DeltaR on the dog bones to show the effect of the FROs. In Tables 4 and 5, you could explain the abbreviations in the table caption (FRO, FMC, FDC).
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Original primary research within Aims and Scope of the journal: Yes/no comments. Research question well defined, relevant & meaningful. It is stated how research fills an identified knowledge gap: Yes/no comments. Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical & ethical standard: In the last part of the Results section, lines 198-218, you describe the connection between carbonate alkalinity and dead carbon fraction in fish. Specifically, you mention that a total alkalinity of >90mg/L CaCO3 in the water causes a dead carbon fraction of >0.05 in fish. However, I do not think that we should operate with threshold values like these; instead, increasing concentrations of 14C-free carbonate cause increasing FROs in fish, in a continuum. Later in the discussion, though, we can choose a threshold value to separate relevant from irrelevant FROs. A minor correction: even though most of the total alkalinity in natural systems is carbonate alkalinity, you should consider to separate the two concepts in the text. The total alkalinity comprises all the bases in the solution, and not all of them contribute with carbon. Methods described with sufficient detail & information to replicate: The beginning of the sentence in lines 92-93 is a bit out of context: how have you established that fish accounted for 20-40 % of the dogs’ diet? By the archaeozoological analyses mentioned in the introduction, or by the isotope measurements that you mention later in the article?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Impact and novelty not assessed. Negative/inconclusive results accepted. Meaningful replication encouraged where rationale & benefit to literature is clearly stated. No comments. Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled. Yes – although I would not use calibrated radiocarbon ages to draw conclusions about reservoir offsets. Differences in radiocarbon ages, which are caused by carbon originating from different carbon reservoirs, are already visible on the radiocarbon timescale. When the ages are calibrated, an additional uncertainty is added to the ages from the shape and measurement uncertainty of the calibration curve. Therefore, small offsets are less visible on the calendar timescale than on the radiocarbon timescale. In line 189, you state that you used the criteria by Van Klinken (1999) to assess the quality of the extracted collagen. However, as you use ultrafiltration (which Van Klinken did not use), you might want to consider using other criteria, e.g., lower collagen yields should be acceptable, as using a pretreatment method with ultrafiltration removes some of the sample mass. In lines 162-165, you describe that you combined multiple dates with OxCal’s R_Combine function. I think it is better to use the Combine function in cases when the carbon derives from different samples. The R_Combine function should be used when the carbon derives from the same carbon reservoir, e.g. several samples from the same bone.
Cite this review as
Philippsen B ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Freshwater reservoir offsets on radiocarbon-dated dog bone from the headwaters of the St. Lawrence River, USA (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7174v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 20, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
