Review History for Morphology and development of a novel murine skeletal dysplasia [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Morphology and development of a novel murine skeletal dysplasia To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 8th, 2018 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on October 29th, 2018. The first revision was submitted on May 10th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on May 23rd, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 23rd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Philip Reno
·
May 23, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your last revisions on the manuscript. I hope you agree that the review process has improved this very interesting study. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Jennifer Vonk, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 23, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Philip Reno
·
May 15, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for submitting your revised manuscript. To my eye you have sufficiently addressed the reviewers' concerns. I have re-read the manuscript and still see a number of minor typos and errors in punctuation. I have uploaded a pdf with suggested edits. I also noticed that Spondylo-epiphyseal dysplasia and Hypophosphatasia are misspelled in Table S2. Please address these and resubmit before the manuscript is officially accepted and sent to on to make the proofs. Congratulations on your very nice work.
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 10, 2019
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Philip Reno
·
Oct 29, 2018
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
I have received reviews from two researchers with expertise in analyzing growth plate and skeletal abnormalities in mice. Both commend the paper on the relevance and quality of the analysis and the clarity of the manuscript. One reviewer suggests minor changes while the second suggests more substantial additions. While I do not think a full mechanisms underlying the SD is necessary at this time, but I have indicated major revisions because I would like to hear your response to the well informed reviewer's suggestions and concerns. I also have some specific edits: Line 79: Replace mouse with mice or say "in a mouse model" perhaps. Line 93: Please provide a brief comment on whether this is an inbred or outbred strain. Line 122: Add a comma between P9/10 P14. Line 256: Extra period. Line 346-348: Commas around "by 42.3%" and "by 28.6%" seem extraneous. Line 350: Extra period. I look forward to your revised manuscript and response to the reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Oct 20, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In this manuscript entitled “Morphology and development of a novel murine skeletal dysplasia”. The goals of the study are clearly defined at the outset of the study and the authors organized the work to clearly achieve these goals. Data in figures is organized, easy to follow and relevant to the presented hypothesis.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors describe the phenotype of a novel mutant that arose naturally in the lab from a related ongoing study of the Longshanks mouse line. The materials and methods are thorough in describing the evolution of this project; important to the background for the study. The extensive skeletal analyses via microCT and other measurements shows a clear shortened limb phenotype of these mice that may allow for novel insight once the mutation has been identified in future studies. I commend the authors on this careful analysis through the postnatal growth of the animals.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Based on the data presented, the authors describe a mutation that negatively impacts endochondral ossification, rather than intramembranous ossification. These data are presented in a compelling manner by comparing the size and structure of bones generated by these two processes. The study, however, falls short of more detailed studies that would provide more substantial evidence that this is the case and that will be critical in future studies of these animals. The following points should be addressed prior to publication: 1.Based on histologic evidence in Figure 5, it is clear that chondrocytes are severely affected by the Nabo mutation during postnatal skeletal development. The authors also describe shortened limbs during embryonic development in Figure 3 and Table 2. Given that proper establishment of the cartilage anlagen at embryonic stages is critical to formation of the postnatal growth plate, the authors should also include histologic images of the developing skeleton at embryonic stages (similar to those provided in Figure 5). 2.The combined data of this report strongly suggests that chondrocytes are most affected by the Nabo mouse mutation, however the authors fall short in providing more mechanistic evidence that this is the case, especially at embryonic stages of development. Further histologic studies would allow the authors to conclude more clearly that chondrocytes (and endochondral ossification) are chiefly affected. Possible analyses could include in situ or immunohistochemistry for CollagenX, Collagen2, and Aggrecan. 3.In line 373 and 374, the authors suggest that the growth plates of Nabo mice “show irregularities in bone and cartilage matrix at the chondrosseous junction.” A few mechanistic studies should be provided to support this point further; the only evidence provided is histologic images of these regions. In situ or immunostaining for CollagenX, Collagen2, MMP13, or similar would provide clearer evidence that matrix is affected in the junction (i.e., lack of collagenX expression would suggest defects in chondrocyte maturation which lead to the disruption of the chondro-osseous junction). TRAP staining for osteoclasts may also provide the authors with evidence that matrix is being degraded properly for endochondral ossification.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Morphology and development of a novel murine skeletal dysplasia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7180v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Maria Serrat ·
Oct 22, 2018
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Please provide a rationale for the ages and sample sizes chosen for each analysis. For example, skulls of N= 5 mice per genotype were examined by microCT at postnatal day 75, but growth plate histology was done on only N=3 Nabo mice but N=8 wild type at postnatal day 14 (lines 132 and 174). Why not examine growth plates of older mice (5 weeks and/or 8 weeks age) and why not examine more than N=3 of the Nabo? Please provide justification. Was a power analysis conducted to determine sample sizes?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Minor comment: figures 2 and 3 are referred to out of order
Comments for the author
This manuscript thoroughly characterizes a skeletal dysplasia-like phenotype in a new mouse mutation. The paper is organized and well-written. Although it does not appear to mimic any known (published) human skeletal condition, this new model may have important implications for understanding mechanisms of endochondral ossification during normal and aberrant growth. My only substantive concerns relate to the ages and sample sizes as described in the Experimental Design section of this review. There needs to be better justification for why each time point was selected and why sample sizes vary between analyses. I also recommend changing all instances of growth plate "width" to "height" to match more customary terminology since it is measured in the direction of longitudinal growth. Cite this review as
Serrat M ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Morphology and development of a novel murine skeletal dysplasia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7180v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 8, 2018 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
