Review History for Validation of endogenous reference genes in rat cerebral cortex for RT-qPCR analyses in developmental toxicity studies [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Validation of endogenous reference genes in rat cerebral cortex for RT-qPCR analyses in developmental toxicity studies To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 18th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 1st, 2019. The first revision was submitted on May 17th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on May 23rd, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 23rd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
John Stegeman
·
May 23, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The studies cited do address the concern. # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Nigel Andrew, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 23, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.2
John Stegeman
·
May 21, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors, regarding this comment and. your reply: Q12: Similar studies have been done in same context they have not been cited. A12: We are unsure what the Reviewer refers to here. Same context as in exposure scenario, or with regard to cortex tissue? Wherever we have missed valuable information, we would appreciate more details. I think the reviewer was simply asking for citation of similar studies of reference gene stability in the context of chemical exposures. Please reply as to whether such studies may support the conclusions regarding RGs you have studied. This may be addressed by a simply reply, with or without additional citations. Pending that, your manuscript is acceptable. Thank you for your patience.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 17, 2019
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
John Stegeman
·
May 1, 2019
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please note carefully the comments about things missing. Also, the comment about testing a third gene is especially important, and should be considered. Likewise, addressing assumptions about qPCR, as suggested by Reviewer 1, is important.
label_author_1
Helena Hogberg ·
Apr 18, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
English is clear with only small editorial suggestions 1.Line 145, add space after P/N 4303859)… 2.Line 177, add and after this problem… 3.Line 195, add the after upregulation in… 4.Line 203, add space after Ct method… Tables and figures 1.Statistical significance denotations in the figure legends are missing. 2.In figure 1 the Rps18 and Rpl13a as well as RPS18 and Ubc alone (not in combination) is not plotted. 3.The numbers in figure 1 do not match with the numbers in table 3.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Methods 1.There is no information on how many animals were used other than in table 2. Add to material and methods and figure legends.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
1.The testing of only two genes for the proof-of-principle gives limited evidence. I would recommend using at least 3 genes of each different expression pattern after exposure (up-regulated, down-regulated, and unchanged) to conclude that more than one reference gene should be used. This could also provide some guidance for the minimum fold-change to consider significant in this experimental setting and add value to the manuscript. 2.I would like to see these genes of interest after all the exposures; PTU, OMC and DE-71 as they might very well show different results and my not support the conclusion statement that these reference genes are to recommend following in utero exposure to TH disruptors. 3.As the authors state, several assumptions are made when performing RT-qPCR (Nolan et al, 2006) and at least some of these should be addressed in this manuscript. At least the RNA quality should be provided and a serial dilution of the samples to assess PCR efficiency and presence of inhibitors. 4.I would also suggest to compare different methods than 2-<U+0394><U+0394>CT for quantification (e.g. Rao et al, 2014 and Pfaffl 2001) as this would add additional value to the manuscript.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This manuscript describes the evaluation of 10 different endogenous reference genes in rat brain after exposure to three putative TH disrupting chemicals. All selected genes were considered stable when analyzed by three different algorithms. The expression of two genes of interest (likely dysregulated after exposure) was assessed using the different reference genes. Pvalb was significantly downregulated regardless of which reference gene was used while Dio2 was only significantly upregulated when three out of the ten reference genes were used for normalization. The manuscript has in general scientific and methodological soundness. However, it provides no new information and conclusion from the limited amount of genes of interest makes the evidence for the overall conclusion weak. In addition, several quality assurance methods should be added to understand the reliability of the results. Therefore, I would recommend major revision before considered for publication. Cite this review as
Hogberg H ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Validation of endogenous reference genes in rat cerebral cortex for RT-qPCR analyses in developmental toxicity studies (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7181v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 20, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Ramhøj et al, have studied validation of reference genes for appropriate normalization of qRT-PCR. The study has potentially interesting data, but the manuscript requires improvement in organization and clarity. -Abstract is poorly written. Its more like a summary of results. No effort has been taken to underline the problem, in-addition authors have not addressed why 10 genes mentioned were chosen. -Similar studies have been done in same context they have not been cited.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
- Technical samples in triplicates is standard not duplicates as in this study. - Since only duplicates were used statistical values could be misleading. -I would like, that authors should clarify the technical and biological replicates. -The raw data in excel sheet, beta actin is spelled wrong.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
- Box plots should be used for all samples in figure 2, it give a better understanding of the distribution of the values. - A plot comparing all 10 RG’s to each other should be included.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Validation of endogenous reference genes in rat cerebral cortex for RT-qPCR analyses in developmental toxicity studies (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7181v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 18, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
