Review History for Effects of five southern California macroalgal diets on consumption, growth, and gonad weight, in the purple sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effects of five southern California macroalgal diets on consumption, growth, and gonad weight, in the purple sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 12th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 3rd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on December 14th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 16th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Stephen Hawkins
·
Dec 16, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the referees comments. This is fine for publication now.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 14, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Stephen Hawkins
·
Nov 3, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Matthew This paper will be acceptable for PeerJ, but the helpful comments of both referees need to be addressed.
label_author_1
Dan Smale ·
Oct 17, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors present the findings of an experiment on sea urchin consumption of different algal diets. Interactions between grazers and primary producers play a key role in shaping populations and communities in many marine ecosystems and understanding this process is critical. As such, the experiment is of interest to the marine ecology community, and the results shed some new light on dietary preferences and plasticity. The study is technically sound and well executed, and the results are interpreted appropriately and placed in a wider context. The paper is well written and the data presentation is good, allowing patterns to be easily deciphered. I have 2 main concerns and additional minor comments that the authors should consider, but overall I would recommend this paper for publication after a minor/moderate revision. Main points: 1. The experiment, while well replicated at the individual level, was not replicated at the population level in that urchin collections were made just once at a single site. Given that the site is shallow, inshore and characterised by extensive barrens, I was left wondering about the generality of the findings, and whether feeding behaviour might differ in deeper, offshore populations that exist within more stable kelp forest habitat? Do the authors have any data (even preliminary) on urchin feeding rates/preferences from another site/population that might provide insights into the consistency of the observed pattern? If so, they should consider including it and, if not, perhaps they should include a caveat in the discussion about the generality of the results. 2. The paper is very America-centric, and I wonder if the authors might be able to broaden the discussion to increase the interest/readership for ecologists working in other systems. Is it possible to discuss the results in a wider context, by (i) comparing consumption rates of the purple sea urchin with those measured in other kelp dominated systems and (ii) comparing the degree of plasticity of the purple sea urchin with other urchins in different systems. I think there has been some work done on Centrostephanus, Tripneustes, Strongylocentrotus that might be comparable and provide some general insights into urchin food preference and/or consumption rates. If this is possible, a summary table would be very useful. Minor points Introduction, line 10: insert ‘many’ between ‘in’ and ‘benthic’ as the statement currently reads as if urchins are the dominant grazers in (all) benthic systems. Line 63: were all containers fed seawater from the same system/header tank? Some more info on the experimental set up would be useful here.... Line 69: ‘Algae were added’ rather than ‘introduced’ reads better.... Line 109: ANOVA was used but how did the authors test for normality and homogeneity of variance? And how were the data treated if assumptions weren’t met? Line 168: ‘Macrocystis’ typo Line 223: ‘indicates’ not ‘indicate’ Cite this review as
Smale D ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effects of five southern California macroalgal diets on consumption, growth, and gonad weight, in the purple sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.719v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Maeve kelly ·
Nov 1, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is well prepared, the writing style is accurate and unambiguous, is it pleasant to read. The topic is sufficiently well introduced and appropriately referenced. The discussion is restricted to the ecological perspective. Incidental relevance to the aquaculture of this species is worth a mention.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The manuscript describes the results of a 89 day experiment on 35 urchins fed one of 5 diets, so 7 individuals (replicates) per treatment. Firstly the authors must confirm these urchins had independent water supplies. Secondly, while the experiment seems small-scale, the use of fewer urchins is to be commended ethically and the fact individuals rather than populations are studied seems to have been successful, the error bars on the data suggest clear treatment effects.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The amount of new information is limited, from this relatively small experiment, but clearly presented and well supported by the data. There is a lack of time 0 data for gonad weight but the authors make a reasonable justification for their assumption that making a measure at half time gave a similar answer.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I have made some comments on the pdf attached Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
kelly M ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effects of five southern California macroalgal diets on consumption, growth, and gonad weight, in the purple sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.719v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 12, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
