Review History for An avian femur from the Late Cretaceous of Vega Island, Antarctic Peninsula: removing the record of cursorial landbirds from the Mesozoic of Antarctica [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History An avian femur from the Late Cretaceous of Vega Island, Antarctic Peninsula: removing the record of cursorial landbirds from the Mesozoic of Antarctica To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 12th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 6th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on May 31st, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 2nd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Andrew Farke
·
Jun 2, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your close attention to the reviewer and editorial comments! [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Laura Wilson, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 31, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Andrew Farke
·
May 6, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Overall, this manuscript is concisely written and its conclusions are well supported by the underlying data. The reviewers and I have identified a few minor areas for revision, which are included in the editorial notes below and the reviews (including marked-up PDFs). - Please revise the abstract to include specific results. As is, it presents the overall conclusions, but some of the specific data underlying these conclusions in terms of characters, etc., should also be mentioned. - lines 63-69 -- consider mentioning (briefly) which characters/data were used to support these assignments/reassignments
label_author_1
Gerald Mayr ·
Apr 13, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a short note, which corrects the previous identification of an avian femur from the Latre Cretaceous of Antarctica, and for the first time presents a description of the fossil. As such, the manuscript is certainly a worthwile contribution to palaeornithology and I have only a few comments the authors may wish to take into account. Technical details, such as the approariate use of the references, English grammar, etc. do not need to be improved except for the few minor instances listed below.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The paper follows current standards in palaeontological studies, but I wonder whether there should be a material and method section, in which institutional abbreviations are given and the used terminology is referenced. Certainly, this is not mandatory given the expected briefness of such a section and if it conforms with the journal standards, a material and method section can be omitted.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I full agree with the referal of the fossil to the Vegaviidae and have only a few minor comments the authors may wish to take into account (see below)
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
While I fully agree with the referral of this fossil to the Vegaviidae, the distal view of the distal end shows some differences to the distal femur of Vegavis in the depth of the patellar sulcus and the shape of the remaining lateral condyle (Fig. 4P, Q). I assume that these are due to the poor preservation of the fossil and it may be worth to add a specific note on this to the next (you already included some similar statements in lines 154ff). You compare the new fossil with the holotypes of vegavis and Polarornis. What I miss, however, are comaprisons with the Vegavis/Polaronis material listed by Acista Hospitaleche in her paper on the putative gaviiforms from Antarctica. It would at least be necessary to state whether the new femur is also larger than the remains reported in this latter study. Some minor comments: - note that in avian terminology of the femur, the directions "cranial/caudal" rather than "dorsal/ventral" are used - line 105: "is approximately 36" - add "mm" here - line 152: "Additionally, the round proximoventral ligament scar of Vegavis is positioned near the midline in the new femur ... but is closer to the lateral margin in V. iaai." - as kit is, this sentence makes no sense, since you compare "Vegavis" with "Vegavis iaai". Is the new fossil meant here? In this case, it would be better to give the specimen number. - caption of Fig. 1: "site" instead of "si te" - caption of Fig. 3: "tendineus m. tibialis cranialis" - this should probably read "tendon of..." As a side notes: Personally, I am not fully convinced that it is necessary and appropriate to keep Vegavis and Polarornis as two different taxa on the "genus"-level and I am not sure whether the differences between Vegavis and Polarornis are not the result of the poor preservation of the holotype of P. gregorii (e.g., concerning the absence of the distolateral scar). This question (synonymy of Vegavis and Polarornis) is certainly beyond the scope of the present manuscript, but it may ultimately bear on the affinities of the fossil within Vegaviidae, i.e., whether it is more closely related to Vegavis or Polarornis. (Gerald Mayr) Cite this review as
Mayr G ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "An avian femur from the Late Cretaceous of Vega Island, Antarctic Peninsula: removing the record of cursorial landbirds from the Mesozoic of Antarctica (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7231v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Federico Agnolin ·
May 3, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Dear Editor, The article is concise and well-written. It includes novel information about a very interesting and potentially important specimen. I congratulate authors for such interesting contribution. Some minor comments are included in the attached PDF. I think the article should be accepted after minor corrections. All the best, Federico Agnolin Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Agnolin F ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "An avian femur from the Late Cretaceous of Vega Island, Antarctic Peninsula: removing the record of cursorial landbirds from the Mesozoic of Antarctica (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7231v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 12, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
