Review History for Peptide-based NTA(Ni)-nanodiscs for studying membrane enhanced FGFR1 kinase activities [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Peptide-based NTA(Ni)-nanodiscs for studying membrane enhanced FGFR1 kinase activities To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 19th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 13th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on May 31st, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 2nd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alexis Verger
·
Jun 2, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I confirm that the authors carefully took into account the reviewer's comments and significantly improved the manuscript. The current version of the article is suitable for publication in PeerJ. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Keith Crandall, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 31, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alexis Verger
·
May 13, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Junfeng, Thank you for giving us the opportunity to reconsider your revised manuscript and thank you for your patience while your manuscript has been reviewed and please accept my apologies for the delay in responding. Your paper has been seen by two expert reviewers (one of which was a reviewer of the previous submission) and overall, they are supportive of publication. However reviewer#2 has raised a number of minor concerns (which are detailed below) that will need to be satisfactorily addressed. Thank you for the opportunity to consider this work, and please do not hesitate to contact me in case you should have any additional question regarding this decision or the reports. I look forward to your revision. Yours sincerely, Alexis Verger Academic Editor, PeerJ
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 25, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comment.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors have sufficiently responded to my questions. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Peptide-based NTA(Ni)-nanodiscs for studying membrane enhanced FGFR1 kinase activities (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7234v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 13, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
More reference on the background of nanodiscs could be cited, e.g. Assembly of phospholipid nanodiscs of controlled size for structural studies of membrane proteins by NMR, which was published in Nature Methods.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Average diameters of the nanodiscs determined from TEM data should be based on 2D class average results. However, no 2D class average results are shown in the article.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
1.The authors used DMPC as the main lipid for nanodisc formation. However, DMPC is an artificial lipid and is shorter by two carbons than the shortest native lipid. Could the authors comment on the reason of using DMPC and how physiologically relevant this study is by using DMPC? 2.Line 170: the average diameters of the nanodiscs by TEM should be based on 2D class averages, the authors should provide the 2D class average results in the figure; in additon, it seems in Figure 2B that the nanodiscs are stacking onto each other for 1:1 ratio, while they are well separated from each other for 1:3 and 1:9 ratios. Does the authors have an explaination on this observation? How does this affect the phosphorylation? In Line 190-196, the authors stated that phosphorylation is correlated with the size of the nanodiscs based on the observation that the 1:1 ratio discs provided highest phosphorylation. Is it possible that phosphorylation is related to the stacking effect instead of the size of the nanodiscs? 3.Line 184-186: the black should be nanodiscs only and the red should be the complex, please make sure the text matches the data in the figure; in addition, the SEC profile of FGFR1K alone should also be shown in Figure 3A for better comparison. 4.Line 186-188: the authors performed ITC experiments to measure binding affinity between empty nanodiscs and FGFR1K. ITC experiments on nanodiscs are hard to perform due to bubble formation during stirring in the ITC cell. The authors should indicate in the experimental section on how to avoid air bubble formation during ITC experiments. In additon, proper control experiments are very important for ITC results to be reliably interpreted. The authors should include experimental design of the control experiments in the experimental section and the results of the control in the supplementary material. 5.More evidence of complex formation between nanodiscs and FGFR1K is needed in addition to ITC results. SDS PAGE gel for the peak in Figure 3A could be presented to show the presence of both FGFR1K and 22A (if visible on gel). Or TEM images could be presented for this peak to show that FGFR1K is associated with nanodiscs. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Peptide-based NTA(Ni)-nanodiscs for studying membrane enhanced FGFR1 kinase activities (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7234v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 19, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
