Review History for 2HybridTools, a handy software to facilitate clone identification and mutation mapping from yeast two-hybrid screening [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History 2HybridTools, a handy software to facilitate clone identification and mutation mapping from yeast two-hybrid screening To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 9th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 21st, 2019. The first revision was submitted on May 31st, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 3rd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Savithramma Dinesh-Kumar
·
Jun 3, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
This will be a valuable software for the scientific community. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Elena Papaleo, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 31, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Savithramma Dinesh-Kumar
·
Feb 21, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers have recommended to incorporate some changes to your manuscript. I agree with the reviewers that these changes will improve your manuscript. Especially, instructions on installing BioJava and installation and usage of Github. In addition, both reviewers recommended some additional changes that should be addressed in the revision.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 6, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript introduces a convenient software to facilitate Y2H clone identification and mutation mapping, namely 2HyridTools. Though related software with partial similar functions exist, the authors made a good justification for the necessity of a dedicated Y2H software. The implementation and the test results were clearly stated. This tool will be useful to many users in the future. It is recommended to be published in PeerJ. There are just four minor comments. 1.The program depends on BioJava. It would be better if it is independent, or detailed instruction should also provide for how to install BioJava. 2.Lines 158 – 161, does vector trimming allow mutations on the tag sequences, which may arrive from sequencing errors? 3.Lines 192 – 193, please clarify “If a C-terminus is not found, only the C-termnus will be translated, but not overlapped…” 4.How does the software handle the scenario that within a single experiment, different sequences correspond to different prey proteins interacting with the same bait proteins? Will it group these sequences according to prey proteins? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "2HybridTools, a handy software to facilitate clone identification and mutation mapping from yeast two-hybrid screening (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7245v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Feb 19, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In the manuscript “2HybridTools, a handy software to facilitate clone 1 identification and mutation mapping from yeast two-hybrid screening”, the authors present a new tool for the post-processing analysis for experiments using yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) and reverse two-hybrid (RY2H). The manuscript conforms to the structure recommended by the journal viz. Introduction, Materials and Methods, Results, Discussion, Conclusions. There is continuity in the flow for the readers. I appreciate that the authors have provided references wherever applicable. I appreciate the author for providing the source code and making the software publicly available. The English and grammar of the article are good with very few typos. Below are points that might be useful to further improve the paper: 1.The section “Implementation” should be renamed as “Methods” 2.Provide a documentation for installation and usage of the software on the Github page 3.Provide full-form at the first occurrence of the abbreviation 4.Provide a diagram highlighting the functionalities of the software and the method used to achieve it. I would suggest making it as figure 1. 5.It would be very useful for the readers and make the software easily adopted by researchers, if you can walk-through an example Y2H and RY2H experiment.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design has no flaws.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The tool is an important contribution for researchers working with Y2H and RY2H. Further improvements as suggested in Basic Reporting section would be useful to the community.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "2HybridTools, a handy software to facilitate clone identification and mutation mapping from yeast two-hybrid screening (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7245v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 9, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
