Review History for A green garlic (Allium sativum L.) based intercropping system reduces the strain of continuous monocropping in cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) by adjusting the micro-ecological environment of soil [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A green garlic ( Allium sativum L.) based intercropping system reduces the strain of continuous monocropping in cucumber ( Cucumis sativus L.) by adjusting the micro-ecological environment of soil To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 4th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 3rd, 2019. The first revision was submitted on May 28th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 7th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Pawel Urban
·
Jun 7, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have personally checked the revised manuscript file, and read the rebuttal letter. I am satisfied with the changes made by the authors in response to the reviewers’ concerns. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Julin Maloof, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 28, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Pawel Urban
·
Apr 3, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please carefully address the comments of both reviewers.
label_author_1
Ines Fritz ·
Mar 30, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is written in clear English language, easy to read and to understand. The authors explain the prerequisite (the problem) and find a possible explanation, by combined knowledge from literature and from empiric observations in cucumber farming. Experimental design, results and discussion are all dedicated to prove or falsify the hypothesis.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The pot experiment contains the usual elements for verification and falsification of the authors hypothesis. Microbial community characterisation via PLFA reads a bit old-fashioned - since DNA based metagenome analysis methods have become comparably cheap and easily available. The results deriving from PLFA are acceptable, however, the chance to get a more detailed insight in the changes of microbial soil community changes is missed. There is one specific minor flaw in the methodology, line 95: The addition of mineral nutrients was done in form of an organic fertilizer. It is specified by its nutrient contents, but not called by name or by type.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The experiment was done three times with 10 pots of each variant. The results are valuable for both, for research and for cucumber production, although the total effect on cucumber growth was not very high. Organic fertilizers release their nutrients over time, according to the biodegradation progress. A question remains open: can the observed effect on cucumber growth be related to increased nutrient mobilisation from this organic fertiliser?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No more comments than already given in the other sections. Cite this review as
Fritz I ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "A green garlic (Allium sativum L.) based intercropping system reduces the strain of continuous monocropping in cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) by adjusting the micro-ecological environment of soil (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7267v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 3, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The English writing is hard to understand, and there are too many grammar/tense errors in the manuscript. Please ask a native English speaker for help. Line 81-82 is too colloquial. In Line 153,157 et al. 37°C there should be a space between the number and unit. Please check thoroughly in the whole text.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Please see in General comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
1. In the introduction part the authors said (Line37-39)the continuous cropping obstacle will cause crop yield and quality reduction, why donot check the cucumber yield and quality? 2. Why choose t-test not ANOVA? Since monocropping and intercropping treatments were compared, an ANOVA analysis is recommended. 3.In all figures please mention n value. 4. In discussion part, you found the differences of soil microbial structure and diversity after intercropping, please add the explaination the relation between this differces and croping obstacle reducing. 5. Less of "Growth and Photosynthetic Pigment Analyses" in discussion part. 6. It seems the authors are very casual to draft the MS. For example,Line63: .... and C and N microbial biomass?????? Line 68:... improved P uptake???? 7. In refernce Xiao et al. 2012, 2013, they did garlic-cucumber system in plastic tunnel,in discussion can make a comparasion of this two croping method. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "A green garlic (Allium sativum L.) based intercropping system reduces the strain of continuous monocropping in cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.) by adjusting the micro-ecological environment of soil (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7267v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 4, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
