Review History for Evolutionary couplings detect side-chain interactions [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evolutionary couplings detect side-chain interactions To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 14th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 2nd, 2019. The first revision was submitted on June 5th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 11th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mikhail Gelfand
·
Jun 11, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The reviewers' concerns have been adequately addressed, and the manuscript has become both stronger scientifically and better readable. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Elena Papaleo, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 5, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mikhail Gelfand
·
Apr 2, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers have a number of comments, mainly editorial. Reviewer No. 1 has a suggestion about extending the analysis to tools based on contact networks; I leave it to the authors whether to follow this suggestion, but in any case such tools should be mentioned in the review or discussion section.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 26, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript presents a somewhat refreshing perspective to the question of a high current relevance, namely, how to measure the performance of contact-prediction sequence-based methods. The authors show a broad knowledge of the field, give a sufficient background, and generally the manuscript is well-written and comprehensible.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experimental design is sound to the problem stated. My only concern is the introduction of the minimum distance between heavy atoms as a contact measure very late into the results section. The authors (quite rightfully) state that this measure is perhaps physically most relevant, so in my opinion it should feature prominently throughout the results section right from the beginning. I would recommend restructuring this section so that it is compared to C-alpha-based distances and geometric center-based distances in Figs. 2-5. Then I would appreciate a comment on why center-based distance might be preferred (computational efficiency, I presume?). Another way to detect contacts that could be interesting in this context are resudue interaction networks (e.g. https://academic.oup.com/nar/article/44/W1/W367/2499329 , https://bmcproc.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1753-6561-8-S2-S2 ). The authors might want to look into these tools. Minor comment: is residue center a center of mass or geometric center? I understand that they are spatially close, but this should be clearly stated. Another minor comment: It should be clearly explained how the distance cutoffs are chosen. It is mentioned somewhere in passing that they are chosen to pick the same number of contacts as the 8A cutoff for C-alpha's, however, I would appreciate if that was stated somewhere around the reference to Fig. S1. Third minor comment: In the figure legend to Fig. S1, 150 proteins are mentioned, which have not been introduced to this point. Please fix the legend.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The obtained results are perfectly sound and supported by the data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I have some additional minor comments to the presentation: 1. SI Fig. S7 seems important to me and should be oved to the main text. 2. Neural networks (mentioned on p. 9) are a type of machine-learning algorithms. Please fix the wording. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evolutionary couplings detect side-chain interactions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7280v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Dmitry Ivankov ·
Apr 2, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is written unambiguously and organized well. The introduction is detailed, relevant and well referenced. Figures and tables are comprehensive and helpful. There are some minor comments: 1) Line 29: A reader may expect here supporting references to recent relevant reviews on X-ray crystallography, cryo-electron microscopy, and other listed methods. 2) Line 28: “...primary amino acid sequence...”. Here, the word “primary” has to be omitted (there are no secondary or tertiary sequences). Or, alternatively, the authors can use the term “primary structure”. 3) Lines 93, 137, 195, 323: “...primary chain...”. Again, the word “primary” has to be omitted (there is no secondary or tertiary chains). 4) Line 65: “... can be chosen to use as a reference point … “ The words “to use” can be omitted. 5) Line 200: “ … large fraction of the these couplings ...” The word “the” should be removed. 6) Legend to SI Fig. S3, line 5: “... and found that couplings fail to fully recover C-alpha defined contacts...” Should be “C-beta” instead of “C-alpha”.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design was clear. The question is clearly stated and the authors answer it unambiguously. The authors investigate the relationship between the residue-residue covariation revealed by couplings analysis methods and the type of defining the contacts between residues. In other words, they ask the question, what type of contacts are found by coupling analysis methods? The answer is that these are contacts that are formed between geometric-center of side-chains. This is expected because it is side-chains (not C-alpha atoms) that mutate coordinately in the course of evolution. But the value of the study is that the authors confirmed this expectation explicitly and quantified the found effect. The only small concern is a requirement that the number of contacts made by side-chain centers was the same as the number of C-alpha contacts. As a result, the authors use different values of the threshold for different proteins, which looks artificial from the physical point of view (lines 89-92). If the way of calculation of the contacts does not influence the results, why then not to show results for a more general method of detecting contacts in 3D structure, with the same threshold for all proteins? I don't see a problem that the number of C-beta or geometric-center contacts will be different from C-alpha ones. If the authors want to compare histograms they can normalize the histograms before comparison or compare cumulative distribution like in Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data are robust and controlled. Conclusions are well stated and relevant.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
None Cite this review as
Ivankov D ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Evolutionary couplings detect side-chain interactions (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7280v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 14, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
