Review History for Shoot and root traits of summer maize hybrid varieties with higher grain yields and higher nitrogen use efficiency at low nitrogen application rates [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Shoot and root traits of summer maize hybrid varieties with higher grain yields and higher nitrogen use efficiency at low nitrogen application rates To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 25th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 16th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on June 12th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 13th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Axel Tiessen
·
Jun 13, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear author I can read that you have addressed all the reviewers concerns. The reviewers comments have been responded adequately. I congratulate you for the nice piece of work, which will add value to PeerJ. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Julin Maloof, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 12, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Axel Tiessen
·
May 16, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear authors, Your paper has been assessed by two reviewers and myself as academic Editor. As you could see below, the manuscript needs a major revision. Please address all concerns of reviewer 1 and submit a revised version of the manuscript. Please include a detailed response to each reviewer. English language should be corrected by a native speaker with scientific expertise. Please include raw data in excel and also elaborate better figures (more graphical output) []
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 20, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1. The is need for prof reading from the an English speaking person or prof-reading services. There are lots of grammatical errors that need to be addressed before the paper can be considered for publication. 2. On the introduction the author need focus more on the physiology on what has been done in terms of nitrogen use efficiency. see the following papers Bänziger, M., Setimela, P. S., Hodson, D., & Vivek, B. (2006). Breeding for improved abiotic stress tolerance in maize adapted to southern Africa. Agricultural Water Management, 80(1–3), 212-224 Bänziger, M., G. O. Edmeades, and H. R. Lafitte. "Selection for drought tolerance increases maize yields across a range of nitrogen levels." Crop science 39.4 (1999): 1035-1040. Bänziger, M., F. J. Betrán, and H. R. Lafitte. "Efficiency of high-nitrogen selection environments for improving maize for low-nitrogen target environments." Crop Science 37.4 (1997): 1103-1109. Bänziger, M., and H. R. Lafitte. "Efficiency of secondary traits for improving maize for low-nitrogen target environments." Crop Science 37.4 (1997): 1110-1117. 3. From the attached citation the introduction and the background can be improved. Abstract: Line 19 remove the background Line 21 remove the word methods Line 25 remove the word Results Line 31 remove the word Discussion The state the objective of research or the rationale for doing the research. From the abstract state the design used. Proof reading is need and follow the style of the journal. Introduction: Line 36 There is no citation for Tester and Kandgride Line 38-40 State how nitrogen fertilizer has caused problems in agriculture. Line 43 can be combined to show the effects of nitrogen fertilizer Line 48 there is need for a citation on China being the largest consumer of nitrogen fertilizer Line 48-60; The paragraph is too long break it into two Line 81-86 ; Some of the materials should be moved to materials and methods or simply delete
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1.mention the season when the experiment was conducted 2. How were the two hybrids identified as NUE and non-NUE. 3. Line 100 can be combine with line 90 4. Line 105 need revision 5. Pn and PNUE- define the abbreviation before use 6. Line 117 its not clear why the midrib is being avoided. 7. Line 135; replace the worked killed 8. On the materials and methods include the linear model for the experiment. 9. What the maturity of the two hybrids
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
1. There is need sure that the experiment is bring in new information. 2. The experiment could have been better if more genotypes were used. That will increase the validity of the experiment and increase the population of inference.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Shoot and root traits of summer maize hybrid varieties with higher grain yields and higher nitrogen use efficiency at low nitrogen application rates (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7294v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Serafin Cruz-Izquierdo ·
May 14, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The title of the manuscript and the text provide evidence that are important quality assessors of corn hybrids for breeders. I admit that I am not a professional in English but I understand and technically what I read is fine. The introduction and background are clear and consistent with the cited quotations. Follow order in the development of the text. I consider it to be within the Peer journal standard.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The materials and methods are widely described in detail with sufficient detail and information to replicate. The statistical procedures are adequate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The result is not novel, however it provides knowledge, the evaluation in hybrid germplasm updates the evaluation methodology. It is possible to evaluate this methodology using others and more hybrids as well as other places. The data are sufficient and strengthen a clear analysis with quotes referred to in the text. Clear conclusions and are supported by data, congruent with the purpose of the manuscript. I believe that it is important to update references, and to be selective those that really contribute or contrast what has been discussed. References of the last ten years is desirable.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I believe that the manuscript must be accepted and continue with the editorial process until its publication. Cite this review as
Cruz-Izquierdo S ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Shoot and root traits of summer maize hybrid varieties with higher grain yields and higher nitrogen use efficiency at low nitrogen application rates (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7294v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 25, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
