Review History for Proximate grassland and shrub-encroached sites show dramatic restructuring of soil bacterial communities [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Proximate grassland and shrub-encroached sites show dramatic restructuring of soil bacterial communities To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 13th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 28th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on June 12th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 17th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Jianjun Wang
·
Jun 17, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
This is an important study showing the contrasting ecological processes underlying the microbial communities in proximate grassland and shrub-encroached sites. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Ann Hedrick, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 12, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Jianjun Wang
·
May 28, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Small-scale variations in microbial communities are a common phenomenon in soil environments, while the underlying ecological processes are less understood. The results obtained from the proximate grassland and shrub-encroached sites provide a great example in exploring above key questions. The comments and concerns, raised by two experts in this field, are needed to be addressed point-to-point.
label_author_1
Hui Sun ·
May 21, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors investigated the effects of shrub-encroachment on the soil bacterial community structure by Illumina Miseq. Overall, the manuscript was written with professional standard English and easy to follow. The structure, figures and tables in the MS are sound and readable. However, the introduction seems lacking of few lines on the importance of microbes. One question is that why the authors did not investigate the shift in fungal community, which are more important in carbon cycles and close related to vegetation changes. Personally, the text in result part could be more straightforward than by using sophisticated, but rather confusing sentences. e.g.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The aim of the MS was clear and the experimental design were sound and logical. Materials and methods section were well described in most of the parts, except in Statistical analysis, in which, lines of 136-143 were not well explained and clarified. What are the purposes to use NTI, betwNTI as well as Co-occurence network analysis. The interpretaton from these analysis in the result were somehow vague.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The conclusion seems not focusing the aim of the study. The listed 1),2) and 3) should be in the background information section rather than in the conclusion. Secondly, the suggestion (line 245) can be confirmed easily by further analysis for community function based on the OTU taxonomy via computationally Predicted Functional Metagenomes (PFMs). Line 198-199. Is it correct interpretation? Encroachment caused bacterial community shift, not vice versa.
Cite this review as
Sun H ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Proximate grassland and shrub-encroached sites show dramatic restructuring of soil bacterial communities (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7304v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Weidong Kong ·
May 28, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript “Proximate grassland and shrub-encroached sites show dramatic restructuring of soil bacterial communities” compared the bacterial community difference at the levels of composition and phylogenetics, aiming to understand the effects of shrub encroachment on soil bacterial community in grassland ecosystem. The results showed that shrub soil bacterial diversity was significantly higher than grassland, and their community structure substantially differred. SOC played a key role in driving the soil bacterial community difference in shrub and grassland, but pH did not. The study provided interesting findings, which contributes to understand the belowground response to shrub expansion.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Here are my concerns: 1.The introduction failed to appreciate previous studies about the association of shrub and grassland with soil microbial community. 2.Phylogenetic diversity was an important index in the study, but was not mentioned the calculating method in the method section. 3.Line 163-164 should go to the section of bacterial alpha-diversity. 4.Line 169 "more relative abundance" should be a higher relative abundance. 5.Line 182, I had difficulty in understanding the sentence, there was a language problem. 6.SOC was demonstrated to be a key factor to differ the bacterial community in shrub and grassland soils, but authors did not carefully discuss this point. I'd encourage the authors discuss how SOC type and contents from shrub and grass affect bacterial communities.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
See above. Cite this review as
Kong W ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Proximate grassland and shrub-encroached sites show dramatic restructuring of soil bacterial communities (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7304v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 13, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
