Review History for Mitochondrial phylogeny and comparative mitogenomics of closely related pine moth pests (Lepidoptera: Dendrolimus) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Mitochondrial phylogeny and comparative mitogenomics of closely related pine moth pests (Lepidoptera: Dendrolimus ) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 19th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 11th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on June 3rd, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 18th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Jun 18, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Qin and colleagues: Thanks for revising your manuscript to PeerJ, and for addressing the concerns raised by the reviewers. I now believe that your manuscript is suitable for publication. Congratulations! I look forward to seeing this work in print, and I anticipate it being an important resource for research on pine moth mitogenomics and systematics. Thanks again for choosing PeerJ to publish such important work. -joe [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Keith Crandall, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 3, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joseph Gillespie
·
Mar 11, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Dr. Qin and colleagues: Thanks for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. I have now received three independent reviews of your work, and as you will see, the reviewers raised some concerns about the research. Despite this, these reviewers are optimistic about your work and the potential impact it will lend to research on pine moth mitogenomics and systematics. Thus, I encourage you to revise your manuscript accordingly, taking into account all of the concerns raised by the reviewers. While the concerns of the reviewers are relatively minor, this is a major revision to ensure that the original reviewers have a chance to evaluate your responses to their concerns. Please note that reviewer 2 provided edits on marked-up versions of the manuscript. Please address all of these criticisms, as well as those provided in the general reviews. I look forward to seeing your revision, and thanks again for submitting your work to PeerJ. Good luck with your revision, -joe
label_author_1
Zhen Zhang ·
Mar 6, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Clear and unambiguous, professional English used throughout. Literature references, sufficient field background/context provided. Professional article structure, figures, tables. Raw data shared. Self-contained with relevant results to hypotheses.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Original primary research within Aims and Scope of the journal. Research question well defined, relevant & meaningful. It is stated how research fills an identified knowledge gap. Rigorous investigation performed to a high technical & ethical standard. Methods described with sufficient detail & information to replicate.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data is robust, statistically sound, & controlled. Conclusions are well stated, linked to original research question.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Revision suggestions: 1.concerning the species of Dendrolimus, Fauna Sinica Vol.47(2006) should also be referenced. 2. Six individuals of three species (D. kikuchii, D. houi and D. superans, 2 individuals for each species) were selected for sequencing in this study. Please state more clearly how did you collected 2 individuals, from one site or different sites? 3.It should be stated more clearly that from Mitochondrial phylogeny and comparative mitogenomics of closely related pine moth pests what results were different from the results of previous studies. And should also discuss the reasons. Cite this review as
Zhang Z ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Mitochondrial phylogeny and comparative mitogenomics of closely related pine moth pests (Lepidoptera: Dendrolimus) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7317v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Andrea Battisti ·
Mar 7, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is an interesting ms based on a large dataset of mitochondrial genomes of an important group of pine defoliating pests in the Palaearctic region and in Asia. I have two major issues: 1. an important species, actually the species with the largest range in Asia and occurring also in China, Dendrolimus sibiricus, is missing. I suggest in the comments how this can be addressed, basically to add it to the dataset or to use sequences published by other authors for comparison, although on a part of the genome (see Kononov et al. not cited in this ms). 2. the objectives and the discussion should be more clear about the taxonomic level to consider. I would suggest to reduce/remove the part on the family and superfamily level and to concentrate on the Dendrolimus genus. This will help to make the paper more focused, especially if D. sibiricus is added.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is fine, although one important species is missing and should be added (suggestions in the pdf file)
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Results should be integrated with the addition of the species mentioned above.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I think this ms can be considered after the recommendations are addressed. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Battisti A ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Mitochondrial phylogeny and comparative mitogenomics of closely related pine moth pests (Lepidoptera: Dendrolimus) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7317v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Mar 8, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
It is suggested to refer to more papers for the results of phylogenetic tree construction, and discuss the differences between species and the reasons.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
In the results and discussion, the similarities and differences between the six species of pine caterpillar based on the base composition, codon, tRNA structure and other aspects and the results of phylogenetic tree are needed more summarize. Codon usage and RSCU were similar among the different Dendrolimus species, and the Figure 3 and 4 seems uninformative. I suggest move these two figures to the supplement material or change them as comparing the Codon usage and RSCU between Lasiocampoidea and Bombycoidea.
Comments for the author
Qin et. al. sequenced mitogenomes of three Dendrolimus species, and performed a very detailed analysis of the mitogenomes known in Dendrolimus spp. Based on mitochondrial genome sequences, the paper compared the base compasition, the order of the 37 genes and protein gene of initiation codon and termination codon, the characteristics of A+T rich area structure, and phylogenetic tree was constructed. The information of mitochondrial genome in lepidoptera was enriched, and the authors illustrated interspecific relationship of the six species. 1. In the Background part of Abstract, The authors should add one sentences to explain the discrimination challenging of different Dendrolimus species. 2. Line 66: The reference were cited as numbers here but name and year information in other sentences. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Mitochondrial phylogeny and comparative mitogenomics of closely related pine moth pests (Lepidoptera: Dendrolimus) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7317v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 19, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
