Review History for Tandem-repeat protein domains across the tree of life [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Tandem-repeat protein domains across the tree of life To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 2nd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 15th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on December 21st, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on December 29th, 2014.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Valeria Souza
·
Dec 29, 2014
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors did all the suggested corrections, I fell the manuscript is now well rounded.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 21, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Valeria Souza
·
Nov 15, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The procedure the authors made is correct, it can be replicated and everything seems fine. However, I would like to see a test, some evidence, or confidence values on how the repeat domains are predicted. I understand the authors rely on the SUPERFAMILY database and therefore on their predictions. However, this is the base of this research and some support on it could reinforce the validity of the analysis. Additionally, would the results change if redundancy is eliminated from the dataset? I'm concerned with the fact that there is too much redundancy in the species they analyze and their proteomes. Specially, because of the percentage thresholds they set. I would advice to keep an eye on this and test whether the results differ. The thresholds also change from data set to data set.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 12, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Tandem-repeat protein domains across the Tree of Life This manuscript is a follow-up on a previously published paper by the same authors where they described ankyrin (ANK) repeat domains across the tree of life. They present here a similar set of results, with the same methodologies, but now assessing the abundance of armadillo (ARM) and tetratricopeptide (TRP) tandem-repeat domains. They report that all repeat domains are present in almost every organism in all domains of the tree of life, with differences in abundance, and that it is expected to see more TRP containing proteins in virulence factors of pathogen bacteria, but didn’t. The overall impression I get is that this paper is rather similar to the Ankyrin paper. It may be acceptable after major revision
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The procedure the authors made is correct, it can be replicated and everything seems fine. However, I would like to see a test, some evidence, or confidence values on how the repeat domains are predicted. I understand the authors rely on the SUPERFAMILY database and therefore on their predictions. However, this is the base of this research and some support on it could reinforce the validity of the analysis. Additionally, would the results change if redundancy is eliminated from the dataset? I'm concerned with the fact that there is too much redundancy in the species they analyze and their proteomes. Specially, because of the percentage thresholds they set. I would advice to keep an eye on this and test whether the results differ. The thresholds also change from data set to data set.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
As stated above, their validity could be enhanced if the original predictions used are supported better. A "quality control" is needed to assess if the predictions are correct. Their statistical analyses seem fine and make sense. I believe that it is also important to report negative results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Major points: The abstract gives no relevant information on the importance of finding these motifs in this fashion. For neophytes, the abstract is boring and does not incite to read the article. It can even be a little confusing. Material and methods: Does the inclusion of redundant species and proteomes bias the results? Lines from 130, why would the domains be correlated? I think this correlation has no biological meaning and should be taken out of the manuscript, or otherwise specified why does the authors think this correlation is important? It is obvious that the presence of TPR is going to correlate with everything else since this domain is widely distributed across the whole tree of life. I certainly enjoyed the discussion on the Mollicutes, since these organisms tend to fall out of generalities. However, the speculation about how the tandem repeat domain-containing proteins is related to their cell wall seems unsustainable. I believe that speculations this size without any evidence can be harmful to the way science is done. I would strongly advice to remove lines 224-226 unless the idea can be correctly supported. Minor points: The order of the figures is confusing, figure 3 appears before figure 2 in the text and it is distracting. Changing the order of figure 2 to 3 would be better. The percentages in line 116 and 117 are way off, for bacterial genera, 308/544=56.6% and the authors report 76.8%, for the archaeal genera, 6/68=8.82% and 79.4 is reported. The numbers in the parenthesis must be wrong because the percentages correspond to the next part of the sentence. The paragraph at line 160 needs to be revised. It is confusing, and the idea is not, so it can be written nicer. Line 205, the last word “species” does not have an accent Line 216, Change word Interesting, to interestingly Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Tandem-repeat protein domains across the tree of life (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.732v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Arturo Becerra ·
Nov 13, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Although, interesting results are shown, as the phylogeny rather than lifestyle or pathogenicity, is correlated to repeat domain abundance; or that pathogenic bacteria were not enriched in TPR-containing proteins, unlike previous reports. It’s hard to identify the main research question of the work. It is descriptive work, which lacks explanations or hypothesis to explain the data and results. In my opinion, this is the most important deficiency of the work. Hence, the article should be published until it resolves this void.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Although, interesting results are shown, as the phylogeny rather than lifestyle or pathogenicity, is correlated to repeat domain abundance; or that pathogenic bacteria were not enriched in TPR-containing proteins, unlike previous reports. It’s hard to identify the main research question of the work. It is descriptive work, which lacks explanations or hypothesis to explain the data and results. In my opinion, this is the most important deficiency of the work. Hence, the article should be published until it resolves this void. Cite this review as
Becerra A ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Tandem-repeat protein domains across the tree of life (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.732v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 2, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
