Review History for In silico analyses of CD14 molecule reveal significant evolutionary diversity, potentially associated with speciation and variable immune response in mammals [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History In silico analyses of CD14 molecule reveal significant evolutionary diversity, potentially associated with speciation and variable immune response in mammals To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 19th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 13th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on June 14th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 19th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Hossein Khiabanian
·
Jun 19, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You have sufficiently addressed the comments from the reviewers. I believe your study of CD14 and its evolution within mammals will add to our understanding of evolution of immune response to pathogens. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Elena Papalao, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 14, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Hossein Khiabanian
·
May 13, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The reviewers have appreciated the comprehensive analysis reported in the paper, but they raised minor concerns, especially in presentation and copy-editing, which should be addressed before the paper is acceptable for publication.
label_author_1
Jata Shankar ·
May 2, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript entitled ‘In silico analyses of CD14 molecule reveals significant evolutionary diversity potentially associated with speciation and variable immune response in mammals’ is well written and questions that are raised have been answered using various computational programs. Following incorporation will improve the manuscript. Table 1 and Table 2 show identity and similarity respectively, does not give much different interpretation/ information, should be merged in one table, keeping ‘similarity’ in bracket. Author should construct a figure depict the gene structure indicating conserved domain, location of mutation/ substitution of amino acids or hotspots and whether deleterious or neutral etc. Cite this review as
Shankar J ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "In silico analyses of CD14 molecule reveal significant evolutionary diversity, potentially associated with speciation and variable immune response in mammals (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7325v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 6, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
- Overall, the paper is clearly written. A minor comment is that the word "the" is sometimes missing; e.g. *the* CD14 gene, *the* CD14 molecule, *the* CD14 protein, *the* evolutionary tree was constructed. - I do not see a reason to abbreviate amino acids as aa on line 78 if you spell out the full word later (such as on lines 86, 115 and elsewhere).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
- The authors layout the article in an easy to follow manner, and the provide an appropriate amount of detail in the methods section. - I am curious as to why the particular 14 mammalian species were chosen?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data is robust, and conclusions are supported by the results, but the authors should make the limitations of their study more clear in the Discussion.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
- It would be nice to briefly define the amino acids properties listed on lines 114-118. - I have also made a few minor comments in the PDF attached. - Tables 1 and 2 could be easier to read if there was a colour-scale (in addition to the raw numbers) signifying the percents. However, if there are colour-charges involved, then this comment can be ignored. - Is there a rationale for the row order in Tables 3,4,5? If not, there should be? Even if the reason is simply alphabetical. - Figures 1 and 7 are too small/difficult to read. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "In silico analyses of CD14 molecule reveal significant evolutionary diversity, potentially associated with speciation and variable immune response in mammals (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7325v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
May 12, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The article needs some English Language editing and i have identified and also suggested how to improve the wrong phrases Line 26 -replace report with paper Line 30 - replace ancient conservation with is conserved Line 33 - replace this is important with this may be important Line 63 is a repetition of line 50 Line 77 - change gather to glean The objective statement is not obvious from this introduction. Authors should include the objective statement Line 171-172 should be rephrased to reflect that CD14 protein sequence is not conserved Line 176 - change show to shows Line 249 - change eleven to 11 For the discussion section of this paper, there are many statements made by the authors that needs to be supported by citations Line 273 - Citation should be included after disease condition Line 278 - recast the statement because it appears something is missing here Line 284 - Citation be included after viral infections Line 293 - The number and conservation of LRR and delete the conservation of LRR domain in line 294 Line 316 - Citation should be included after pathway Line 319- insert when between tolerance and compared Line 327- Recast the statement here Line 332 - Insert a citation after lipopolysaccharide Line 347 - Citations should be behind protein activities Genes and proteins were used interchangeably in this paper, authors needs to be more careful and use the terms where appropriate Line 357 - change current statement to is important to decipher molecular and biochemical mechanism Every where the authors talked about evolutionary event, they need to indicate whether it is divergent, convent or even neutral evolution Overall, the authors needs to indicate that CD14 is a gene that encodes a protein and clear any confusion from the use of the terms interchangeably.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The authors should use the word may where they speculated in this paper.
Comments for the author
See comments above Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "In silico analyses of CD14 molecule reveal significant evolutionary diversity, potentially associated with speciation and variable immune response in mammals (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7325v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 19, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
