Review History for Health-related quality of life and emotional and behavioral difficulties after extreme preterm birth: developmental trajectories [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Health-related quality of life and emotional and behavioral difficulties after extreme preterm birth: developmental trajectories To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 17th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 28th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on December 9th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 4th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dorota Frydecka
·
Jan 4, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your manuscript is an important contribution to the field.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 9, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dorota Frydecka
·
Nov 28, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
In summary, this is a well done study that unfortunately suffers from small sample size and therefore should be considered pilot data only. This should be clearly stated in any publication.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 13, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
For very preterm infants, quality of life across childhood and into early adulthood has received very little attention. This longitudinal study investigates HRQOL in a cohort of infants born at < 1000 grams or < 28 weeks gestational age at 10 and 18 years of age. Specific attention is paid to emotional and behavioral problems. The paper is very well written,
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Valid measurement tools were used, and the statistical analysis is appropriate, however the sample size is too small from which to draw conclusions with any confidence. Although the study was performed with a population- based sample some discussion in the methods of the power of the study to detect real differences in outcomes is needed. he control group is small given the 1:1 matching design so a comment on whether the control group is representative of Norwegian children is the region would strengthen the comparison. A control group of 2 or 3:1 would have been preferable, although more costly. Subgroup analysis by gender compounds the problem of small sample size but was the primary aim of the study and yields interesting pilot data for a larger study. The results are communicated with many tables and graphs, but I found they conveyed important information that I wanted to know.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The weaknesses of the study are appropriately acknowledged and discussed in the Discussion section of the paper. In summary, this is a well done study that unfortunately suffers from small sample size and therefore should be considered pilot data only. This should be clearly stated in any publication.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Health-related quality of life and emotional and behavioral difficulties after extreme preterm birth: developmental trajectories (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.738v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 25, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors report on a longitudinal study of 18 year olds born very preterm (<29 weeks GA) or very low birth weight (<1000g) along with who were also examined at age 10 years born in their NICU over 1990/1. Their primary aim was to examine HRQoL and emotional and behavioural problems over these years in a contemporary cohort and investigate the significance of self efficacy and neonatal variables in these outcomes. A control group was recruited at age 10 years and also followed up at age 18 years. Their study of a contemporary cohort of young people born in the post surfactant era where there is marked improvement in NICU outcomes is important as there are few studies to date looking at emotional and behavioural outcomes and none looking at self reported quality of life as teens. They show clearly the different trajectories for boys compared with girls and how these change over puberty. Their line graphs are a particularly powerful way to represent these changes and should be more prominently displayed, perhaps with some better graphics ? using colour to display the changes over time more succinctly than the whole page of mini graphs.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The small number of participants (N=35) limits the fine grain analysis of their large data set and I believe that they should concentrate on the main findings and not obscure these by over reporting of other less secure data due to power issues.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Overall this is a well designed and well written paper with appropriate references to the extant literature. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Health-related quality of life and emotional and behavioral difficulties after extreme preterm birth: developmental trajectories (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.738v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 17, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
