Review History for Relationship between ROS production, MnSOD activation and periods of fasting and re-feeding in freshwater shrimp Neocaridina davidi (Crustacea, Malacostraca) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Relationship between ROS production, MnSOD activation and periods of fasting and re-feeding in freshwater shrimp Neocaridina davidi (Crustacea, Malacostraca) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 26th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 13th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on June 21st, 2019 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 2nd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Rachel Ann Hauser-Davis
·
Jul 2, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Rost-Roszkowska, Thank you for your submission to PeerJ. I am writing to inform you that your manuscript - Relationship between ROS production, MnSOD activation and periods of fasting and re-feeding in freshwater shrimp Neocaridina davidi (Crustacea, Malacostraca) - has been Accepted for publication. Congratulations! [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by James Reimer, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 1, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In the introduction section the observations that I suggested were taken into account, so now it is clearer, the description of the oxidative stress in Neocaridina davidi is better understood. The components of the superoxide dismutase family and their importance in response to oxidative stress were included as part of the introduction.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
They describe in the section of material and methods the number of samples analyzed in this study.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The description of the results of figure number 3 are now described in the results section.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In general, the manuscript describes much better the experimental work done by the authors. In this article, they describe the importance of Neocaridina davidi as a biological model to understand the enzymatic role in oxidative stress under starvation conditions. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Relationship between ROS production, MnSOD activation and periods of fasting and re-feeding in freshwater shrimp Neocaridina davidi (Crustacea, Malacostraca) (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7399v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 21, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Rachel Ann Hauser-Davis
·
May 13, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Magdalena, Thank you for your submission to PeerJ. It is my opinion as the Academic Editor for your article - Relationship between ROS production, MnSOD activation and periods of fasting and re-feeding in freshwater shrimp Neocaridina davidi (Crustacea, Malacostraca) - that it requires a number of Major Revisions. The English requires major editing You should improve the discussion of oxidative stress, indicating examples of studies in crustaceans, to better discuss your findings in comparison to the literature. Indicate that organisms may adapt to ROS levels, and perhaps include future studies which would be interesting, such as analysing other biomarkers for oxidative stress. Further discuss SOD in crustaceans, many reviews are available The sentence: "It can be assumed that the hepatopancreas is the organ that has developed better defenses against free radicals." should be supported by a reference, as this fact is well known.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 16, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
1. Line 53, I suggest inserting the preposition "in" before the word adverse. 2. Line 55, I suggest inserting the article “the” before the word processes. 3. Line 62, It is suggested to improve the description of the function and response of mitochondria in the oxidative stress. 4. Line 68, It is suggest mentioning some components of the superoxide dismutase family and their importance in oxidative stress.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Line 163. It is suggested that the authors describe the number of fields analyzed per experiment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
There is no description of figure 3 in the Results section.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The experiments are well performed and the findings are are in agreement with previous studies. I suggest discuss the importance of N. davidi in other types of studies and as a model to understand oxidative stress at the cellular level due to long-term starvation. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Relationship between ROS production, MnSOD activation and periods of fasting and re-feeding in freshwater shrimp Neocaridina davidi (Crustacea, Malacostraca) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7399v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 25, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The study is interesting. The authors analyzed the production of ROS and the presence of the MnSOD in freshwater shrimp after starvation and refeeding in hepatopancreas and intestine. They report that long term starvation provokes an increase in ROS and in MnSOD and after refeeding, the values decrease. The association of starvation with oxidative stress is a very interesting topic. In general the ms is clear and well presented in all the sections.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The experimental design is appropriate and clearly presented. In materials and methods, it is important to inform that the antibody used for the inmunolocalization of MnSOD does not cross react with other proteins and it was validated in Western blots. Additionally, several crustaceans have a citosolic MnSOD in addition to the classical mitocondrial enzyme and the antibody used might be detecting the 2 MnSODs. . Check paper published by Dr. Brown group and also data for l. vannamei and chinese crab, here are the DOIs DOI 10.1042/BJ20030272, DOI: 10.1016/j.cbpb.2012.03.003, DOI:10.4238/2014.November.11.8
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The resultasaare well presented and clear. I am not sure that the format used for the tables is the one required by Peer J., since the title should be at the top and not at the bottom and this should be concise, while the additonal information presented shoul be a footnote . In figure 2, in the legend, a sentence is duplicated.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_3
The resultss are well presented and clear. I am not sure that the format used for the tables is the one required by Peer J., since the title should be at the top and not at the bottom and this should be concise, while the additonal information presented shoul be a footnote . In figure 2, in the legend, a sentence is duplicated. General comments for the authors It is an interesting study that adds information about responses of aquatic animals to oxidative stress derived from starvation. Check spelling and gramar in the whole paper, for instance the inset in figure 3, “ intestine” is not spelled correctly Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Relationship between ROS production, MnSOD activation and periods of fasting and re-feeding in freshwater shrimp Neocaridina davidi (Crustacea, Malacostraca) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7399v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_4
Reviewer 3 ·
May 8, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_4
1. English: correct, not professional enough 2. Literature references: week 3. Structure of the article: Abstract and Introduction have unnecessary details, but relevant information are omitted. Figure and table legends are not appropriately described 4. Results are not relevant to hypotesis and discussion is rather speculative
Experimental design
label_ed_4
Nothing original. Not well described with some unexplained issues. Tecnical and ethical standards not given.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_4
Not satisfied.
Comments for the author
The manuscript entitled “Relationship between ROS production, MnSOD activation and periods of fasting and re-feeding in freshwater shrimp Neocaridina davidi (Crustacea, Malacostraca)" by Wlodarczyk et al. represents the study of the digestive system in Crustacea where the authors use transmission electron microscopy and histochemical methods to detect and localize the ROS positive cells and MnSOD enzyme after periods of fasting and refeeding in shrimps. There are to many speculative conclusions based on the scarce data. The major flaw of this manuscript is that the authors insist on oxidative stress and elevated MnSOD activity after different periods of refeeding in shrimps. Oxidative stress is much more than simple increase of ROS positive cells and localization of MnSOD. Although mitochondria are the main intracellular source of ROS generation, these ROS also have physiological function, likeH2O2 which is used as a secondary messenger to coordinate oxidative metabolism with changes in cell physiology. At least, authors could measure the activity of MnSOD, not just concentration, because elevated concentration doesn't seem its elevated activation. Some proteins can be synthesized in large quantities, but inactivated (some protein modifications)at some stage of their activation. In addition, mitochondria are enriched with the antioxidant defenses required to degrade ROS, beside MnSOD, glutathione (GSH), thioredoxin (TRX) as well as CuZnSOD settled in its intermembrane space. One should analyze a battery of antioxidants to be relevant for discussion on oxidative stress. MnSOD and CuZnSOD catalyze the dismutation of O2•- to H2O2. Although mitochondria do produce O2•-, the dominant ROS in the matrix environment is H2O2 (Ryan J. Mailloux, “Mitochondrial Antioxidants and the Maintenance of Cellular Hydrogen Peroxide Levels,” Oxidative Medicine and Cellular Longevity, vol. 2018, Article ID 7857251, 10 pages, 2018.) It is known that crustaceans experience starvation periods during their growing process as a result of sequential molting. Like authors emphasized, the starved condition has pro-oxidant effects due to the reduction of the antioxidant defense levels. But what about the adaption of these organisms? Also it is not clear, why authors used both females and males in their study (how many females and how many males). Is there any sex difference in response to starvation? Certainly it is not enough to argue the results obtained on just four or five individuals. Overall, I don't recommend this article to be published in Peer J. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Relationship between ROS production, MnSOD activation and periods of fasting and re-feeding in freshwater shrimp Neocaridina davidi (Crustacea, Malacostraca) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7399v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 26, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
