Review History for A holistic evolutionary and structural study of flaviviridae provides insights into the function and inhibition of HCV helicase [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A holistic evolutionary and structural study of flaviviridae provides insights into the function and inhibition of HCV helicase To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 3rd, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 16th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on April 18th, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 24th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Yong Wang
·
Apr 24, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors made significant improvement and sufficiently addressed all the concerns. I suggest its acceptance.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 18, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Yong Wang
·
Apr 16, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers think the topic is interesting and the manuscript is well-written. I suggest the authors to fully address the issues raised by the reviewers. In particular, the main contribution should be clearly highlighted in the revision.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 16, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The paper is generally well written, and the structure and layout is appropriate for the material presented. There are a few minor typos or omissions, eg p13 "Mangesium atom", p17 "SPC water(?)", such that a careful proof-reading is recommended.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
In general the design of experiments seems entirely suitable, but a couple of relatively minor details to do with MD simulations caught my eye. None are fatal, but should be carefully checked and any inconsistencies ironed out. p9 reports step size was set to 2 femtoseconds to a total of ten nanoseconds, but on p17 1 femtosecond to 50 ns is stated. In addition, in NVT MD one would expect to fix volume of cell and let pressure vary, so statement on p9 "pressure at 1 atm" seems odd!
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This is a high quality piece of research, using a range of computational methods to explore the biology of, and potential chemical interactions with, viral RNA helicases. The problem is clearly stated, the methods explained to a suitable level that would allow replication of results, and some interesting conclusions are reached. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "A holistic evolutionary and structural study of flaviviridae provides insights into the function and inhibition of HCV helicase (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.74v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Zhi-Ping Liu ·
Apr 13, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors should improve their experimental design to make their results more clear.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings should be validated by other methods.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this paper, Vlachakis et al. proposed an analysis of evolutionary and structure of flaviviridae. Some insights for the function and inhibition of HCV helicase have been provided in the results. The following lists my major concerns. 1. The main contribution of this paper should be clearly announced. The authors used some published bioinformatics methods and tools to reconstruct NS3 protein sequences, identify the conserved residues, and search the other features to dissect the HCV helicase. But the main biological insights or meanings of these identifications have not been clearly highlighted in the current version. 2. As for the usage of many existing bioinformatics tools, the version and the parameters in the implementation should be mentioned. It will be more convince to the readers that the identified patterns in the sequences and structures can also be detected by other similar methods. Otherwise, the presented results are highly biased only by one tool. 3. This writing of this manuscript is okay to follow, while it is not very clear about the motivation and the objectives when choose the methods to do which kind of analysis. The logic in the main steps and the motivation of each section should be improved. 4. The figures should be in higher resolutions. The acknowledgement section should be well prepared. In the current version, the reader will be confused about the funds for the research and that for the data source. Cite this review as
Liu Z ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "A holistic evolutionary and structural study of flaviviridae provides insights into the function and inhibition of HCV helicase (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.74v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 3, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
