Review History for Diversity and ecological structure of vibrios in benthic and pelagic habitats along a latitudinal gradient in the Southwest Atlantic Ocean [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Diversity and ecological structure of vibrios in benthic and pelagic habitats along a latitudinal gradient in the Southwest Atlantic Ocean To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 14th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 3rd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on January 3rd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 5th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tom Coenye
·
Jan 5, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
No additional comments - most of the comments raised by reviewers have been addressed.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 3, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tom Coenye
·
Dec 3, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
-Pay attention to provide enough details about methodology, cfr comment by reviewer 1 about plating and comments by reviewer 2 about the phylogenetic analyses. -The section on biogeography should be modified. Reviewer 2 has made several pertinent comments about this, that should be addressed. -You should also address the issue raised by reviewer 2 about including the other parameters (especially temporal variation) in your analysis.
label_author_1
Tomoo Sawabe ·
Nov 30, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The work is worth reporting on the journal PeerJ. The manuscript is well written in English. Manuscript is consisted of mimimun items.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Experimental design is fine, but species identification policy must be clarified.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The manuscript is well construced, the major aims were answered throug the research.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
To elucidate how microbial population structured is an ultimate question in microbial ecology, but mostly unsolved yet. Thompson and co-worker have tried to figure out microbial structuring of coral reef microbiota as a model ecosystem. Authors used pyrH gene sequences obtained from 775 vibrio isolates in addition of publically available 580 pyrH gene sequences for population structuring analysis using AdaptML tool. The aims, presence of generalist and specialist with connections between pelagic and benthic niches, is sound, and materials and methods are well designed. However, less description on the species identification policy caused some ambiguous data interpretations on the vibrio structuring in marine ecosystem. 1.L183-184, and so on. It seems unlikely that 1 mL sample was plated completely due to over-inoculation. Authors described the methods in detail. 2.In results. Authors clearly described how isolates were identified on the basis of pyrH gene sequences, especially identification in V. harveyi/V. owensii/V. communis, and V. mediterranei/V. shiloi groups, because fine identification for these species groups needs skillful criteria. 3.Vibrios are currently tried to define an evolutionary unit, Clade, on the basis of multi locus sequence analysis. Total of 22 clades are proposed now. Mapping the data obtained the author’s research on those proposed phylogeny, authors may also interpret how generalist and specialist have had evolutionary history. Cite this review as
Sawabe T ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Diversity and ecological structure of vibrios in benthic and pelagic habitats along a latitudinal gradient in the Southwest Atlantic Ocean (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.741v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 3, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The study entitled « Diversity and ecological structure of vibrios in benthic and pelagic habitats along a latitudinal gradient in the Southwest Atlantic Ocean » by Chimetto tonon et al. analyzed the population structure of 775 Vibrio strains. The sampling of these strains was made from 2005 to 2010 at different months and seasons, each years, in water column and different animal hosts. Some of these metadata were combined with a phylogenetic analysis based on pyrH to partition these strains in “habitat spectra” using the AdaptML software. One of the main finding is the coupling between benthic and pelagic Vibrio population in one of their sampling site (Abrolhos Bank). The introduction is globally interesting and key points are stated, even if some sentences are awkward (see suggestions). The first paragraph (l56-67) calls a lot of concepts but clearly lack citations (there is only one cited work). I suggest more bibliographical references to support the presented ideas. Moreover, the manuscript would be better by smoothing out some rough sentences. I added in the general comments some part that might beneficiate of some editing.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The main problem in this analysis comes from the sampling. To be clear, strains were sampled during five years, at different seasons, at 8 different sampling sites and in 12 different sources (animal, water and sediment). While there are many variables in this analysis, only two of them that are studied: the sampling site and the isolation source. The temporal dimension of this analysis is not studied here, nor discussed. I think it’s really important to, at least, give some elements justifying that time/season has a minor effect on the presented model. Without this, the conclusions seem limited. Another thought about the sampling and the analyses. I don’t understand why the authors used all the data to study the benthopelagic coupling. Indeed, sea water was only sampled in AB. I suggest the authors to use only the strains from this sampling site to make the analysis presented in figure S5. The result part would be easier to understand if the authors treat the benthopelagic coupling in a separate part. On a more technical point, the phylogenetic inference in material and methods lacks description (method, model used, node support …). In the legend of the figure 2, the authors wrote “The maximum likelihood assignment of nodes to habitats is shown for all nodes, regardless of the confidence of each prediction” (l764-765). In the study from Hunt et al. cited in this work, the creators of AdaptML used a confidence threshold or 99.99%. The authors should explain why they do not use the same threshold and maybe show in supplementary data the result obtained with this threshold. As this analysis is critical in the manuscript, the absence of statistical confidence is puzzling.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The discussion is globally well written and can be understood by non-specialist of Vibrio or marine ecology. However, I don't think it sufficiently adress one the main finding of the study, the biogeographic effect. Biogeographic trends for vibrios in the Southeastern Atlantic. Most of this paragraph (l.363-413) is intended to describe the lifestyle/host association related to genetic modifications of Vibrio taxa from this study. While clear and interesting, I don’t see the relation with the biogeographical pattern explained in the title of the section. The term “geography” and relatives are only written once in the last paragraph of this chapter which is also the only one to discuss the biogeography. This is a problem as it only represents 5 lines out of the 65 lines of this part of the discussion. Moreover, this part only state that there are connectivity between habitat modeled by AdaptML and the link with geographical patterns is unclear and not discussed. Globally speaking, I think the biogeographical effect is poorly supported by the analysis and discussed. The authors should change the title of this part to reflect his content as biogeography seems to be secondary. Habitat delineation and taxonomy are congruent. No specific comments on this part. Some suggestions were added in general comments. Vibrioplanktonic cells may have an influence in the coral reef health. I don't think this part of the discussion is of really connected to the scope and objectives of the work. Globally speaking, I think the biogeographical effect is kind of oversold. The authors should diminish the importance of this finding on every part of the article.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
-L82-85: The sentence is too long and difficult to understand. -L91: “Moreover, increases organic of material used”. -L93-97: The sentence is too long and difficult to understand. -L422-423: “We observed a good congruence between the ecologic grouping generated by the AdaptML and the currently recognized Vibrio species” the absence of confidence support in AdaptML analysis (also raised in the Experimental design section) make this assertion elusive. -L461-462: “and illustrates the huge genome plasticity of this ubiquitous group” the term huge is inappropriate. Genome plasticity is sufficient. -L472-479: This part mainly discuss the work from Moreira et al., 2014. and is not relevant for the actual work. If the authors want to keep that part I suggest to edit it since the sentence is too long and difficult to understand. -Supplementary Fig S3: in the first sentence of the legend, delete distance. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Diversity and ecological structure of vibrios in benthic and pelagic habitats along a latitudinal gradient in the Southwest Atlantic Ocean (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.741v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 14, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
