Review History for Chronologically sampled flight feathers permits recognition of individual molt-migrants due to varying protein sources [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Chronologically sampled flight feathers permits recognition of individual molt-migrants due to varying protein sources To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 22nd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 11th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on December 24th, 2014 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 6th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
James Roper
·
Jan 6, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
This version shows you attended to most or all of the reviewer's comments. I also agreed with your replies to many of the reviewer's comments in your rebuttal. Finally, while I am accepting your manuscript, there were a few minor places in the text, and the title, that I would like for you to consider. I will communicate this to the editorial staff as well, and annex your PDF with those few comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 24, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
James Roper
·
Dec 11, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Your paper clearly has some interesting implications, as both reviewers and I note (please read my comments in the PDF, sent under separate cover). All three of us felt that your manuscript could be much shorter and less verbose. I am the only native speaker of the three of us, so my PDF has better examples of how to write more succinctly. Specifically, reviewer Guaraldo had some relevant observations about reporting the numbers and justifying their variability and the potential for other explanations for their isotope patterns. I would especially like to see comments to that effect - that is, are there alternative explanations, especially considering the sample size. Reviewer 2 agreed that the study had potential, but I felt that he was a bit confused by the writing style and the several places in which you were somewhat prolix about the details. I suggest you look closely at my comments, that are mostly editorial, and recognize the pattern that I was pointing out (use of the word "showed," for example). I think that considering the limitations of your sample size, you could certainly reduce the text to be less speculative and more direct about the results. I hope you find all of our comments and suggestions useful.
label_author_1
André Guaraldo ·
Dec 3, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript presents a new approach to evaluate chronological variations in bird molting behavior through multiple sampling and stable isotope analyses of primary feathers. Despite the very low sample size (three individuals), the manuscript holds a status of an important piece of work by providing the base experiments and data from a novel approach to guide future research on molting ecology and behavior, an important but still little studied theme. Some aspects still deserve further attention from authors to improve this great piece of work, and therefore I provide to the authors a list of specific comments that should help them in this task.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Line 153: Such d15N variations seems very low (~1‰) to be biologically/ecologically meaningful. I question myself to how strong this data is to support the statement that such shifts are exclusively due to environmental change (i.e., distinct molting sites) and not to other sources of variation. For instance, I can imagine that shifts could also be due to individuals' stress, to the unpredictable effect of environmental temperature variations on birds physiology/metabolism, and even due to natural variation of d15N in a given food item pool and individual variation of foraging strategy or even diet. Maybe this could be better explored together with the statement at line 234. L. 154-156: Given its importance in this study, I believe that data from Fox et al. (2009) should be clearly presented at Introduction. L. 163: Mean d15N of individual 509 is only about 0.4‰ different from 501 and 508 means (respectively, ~7.2‰ and ~7.1‰). Is this difference great enough to assume individuals indeed used distinct feeding grounds? This should be clear to readers (maybe at Introduction section?). Moreover, I noticed some inconsistency in this regard (Discussion, lines 226-228). Authors consider that individuals 501 and 508 are good representatives of a previously sampled Greylag population despite their mean d15N values differ on about 0.8‰. Therefore, it is not clear to the reader what a reasonable (ecological) difference in d15N is. This inconsistency follows on lines 229-231 referring to the individual 509. L. 163-165: d15N variation between all three individuals is very low in an ecological perspective. Is it possible to infer birds were feeding at distinct environments based only on this slight difference? Maybe if authors present detailed info on local d15N ratios, readers would better follow and accept their rationale. L. 168: Although the regression is statistically significant, I think it is more important that authors interpret the ecological meaning of a <2‰ variation in d13C. At this point, it should be clear what this variation represents in terms of where birds were molting, but this is explained to readers only in Discussion (L. 235-242). Moreover, mean values for 501 and 509 seems very similar (~-25.9‰), an aspect never stressed as meaningful by authors. L. 172-174: Again, I beg to differ that a statistical significance means distinct ecological scenarios, and this is noticeable when authors justify their findings at Lines 254-257. Moreover, I would move these ideas (starting on line 170) to the Discussion section rather than including them in Results. L. 182: Check for typos (“indiviuduals”). I may have missed other typos and punctuation errors along the text. L. 185-188: I think authors could make a brief statement on the extent that the “incomplete” analysis of feathers could affect their results. L. 236: Authors should consider using “carbon” instead of “C”. In addition, it seems that a line break was mistakenly included in here. L. 245 and 246: I believe that d13C values are all negative. Check for missing “minus” signals. L. 249: I suggest changing “primary growth” by “primary feather growth”. L. 260: A comma is missing in here: “As predicted, (…)”. L. 272-273: Even though I have re-read Methods, I could not follow the equipment limitations highlighted here by the authors. Fig. 1: I missed the equations of each regression line. Please, check for typos in the author's names. I believe the last author's name is "Jeffrey" instead of "Jeffery". Cite this review as
Guaraldo AC ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Chronologically sampled flight feathers permits recognition of individual molt-migrants due to varying protein sources (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.743v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 11, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No additional coments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No additional comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No additional comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The main idea of the authors is interesting but the manuscript could be more appropriately focused on the main issues (the methods). In my opinion there are too many sentences out of place (i.e. results and conclusions in the other sections of the paper, since the introduction), which makes the paper more speculative unnecessarily. Thus, I believe the paper could be much shorter and direct showing the same conclusions more clearly, avoiding repetitive sentences in every section. My main suggestion is that authors should address the lack of sampled individuals as an a priori statement (more than what they tried to do, only commenting on it in the end of the introduction), and then they should rearrange the text to focus even more on the methodological advance rather than in biological hypothesis based on a sample of only three geese. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Chronologically sampled flight feathers permits recognition of individual molt-migrants due to varying protein sources (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.743v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 22, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
