Review History for The phylogeny of desmostylians revisited: proposal of new clades based on robust phylogenetic hypotheses [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The phylogeny of desmostylians revisited: proposal of new clades based on robust phylogenetic hypotheses To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 14th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 13th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on July 6th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 7th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
John Hutchinson
·
Jul 7, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your careful revisions and patient attention to the reviews. I have checked the changes and am satisfied- so congratulations, your paper is accepted! [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Laura Wilson, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 6, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
John Hutchinson
·
Feb 13, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The 2 reviewers available have some fairly minor critiques for the paper to be revised with. Please do clarify the character state "size" and other qualitative definitions, to make the work more reproducible, as per Reviewer 1's comments. And as usual please include a full point-by-point Response to all comments. Thank you and sorry the the delay with this review round! There should be no further review required if your revisions are thorough.
label_author_1
Daryl Domning ·
Jan 28, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comment.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This study is a welcome and well-executed reevaluation of desmostylian relationships and interrelationships.It usefully incorporates the character sets used by earlier workers, and advances our understanding of the group. It is also well-written, with only very minor corrections of the English needed. I have made numerous editorial corrections and suggestions on the marked-up copy of the MS. that is attached here, which is to be shared with the authors. These include questions about the definitions of some of the characters used, and some matters of nomenclature (such as the authorship of "Desmostyloidea"). In general, I am not a fan of cladistic classification, or unranked classifications; however, the authors are certainly at liberty to use these procedures. My most substantive criticism of this MS. is that many of the character-state definitions need more work: specifically, expressions like "smaller than" vs. "much smaller than"; "short" vs. "elongate"; etc. The authors should imagine themselves in the position of an investigator becoming acquainted with desmostylians for the first time, and trying to score a new specimen using definitions like these. They should reconsider all the definitions in the Character List, and expand on such definitions using ratios or other quantifications, positions of a feature relative to other features of a bone, or even illustrations to clarify the distinctions between character states. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Domning D ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "The phylogeny of desmostylians revisited: proposal of new clades based on robust phylogenetic hypotheses (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7430v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Brian Beatty ·
Feb 6, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The usage of English throughout is fairly consistent, though there are several minor typos that should be correctly to improve clarity. These appear to be errors that might have persisted because of errors in the Word dictionary, as they are repeated throughout and often are proper nouns. They include: Vonderhoofius - should be Vanderhoofius canie - should be canine prpteus - should be proteus (this is found in Figure 2) emlongis - should be emlongi (this is found in Figure 2) repeninngi - should be repenningi (this is found in Figure 2) The authors are thorough in their citation of appropriate references. The structure of the article is excellent, data shared, and the results to hypotheses make sense.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors have defined a clear question and have done a thorough job of analysis. This is by far the most thorough analysis this group has received, and the outcomes make sense. They have gone above and beyond to make things replicable and test the replicability of odler studies as well.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results make sense and conclusions are the rational outcome of the results. They are fairly consistent with regard to avoiding speculation. This includes their conservative inclusion of D. coalingensis, which other authors have dismissed as a nomen dubium without much clear support. Though I have my doubts about D. coalingensis as a valid taxon, they explain that ascertaining this is not in the scope of the paper and thus do not attempt to argue to their exclusion. This was wise.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I am impressed by the care and detail by which this study was conducted. It doesn't overreach the results and comes to a rational conclusion based on results alone. I only mark this as minor revisions being needed for the corrections to the typos. Scientific content is sound. Cite this review as
Beatty BL ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "The phylogeny of desmostylians revisited: proposal of new clades based on robust phylogenetic hypotheses (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7430v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 14, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
