Review History for The Hsp70-like StkA functions between T4P and Dif signaling proteins as a negative regulator of exopolysaccharide in Myxococcus xanthus [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The Hsp70-like StkA functions between T4P and Dif signaling proteins as a negative regulator of exopolysaccharide in Myxococcus xanthus To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 14th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 5th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on January 13th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 13th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Heather Etchevers
·
Jan 13, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I have reviewed all the manuscript changes and believe that your careful attention to and discussion of each point raised by the reviewers improve the communication of your results. The revisions in the second paragraph of the Discussion are an aid to the non-specialist reader and the methodological description ambiguities have been resolved both in the main text and in the figure legends.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 13, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Heather Etchevers
·
Jan 5, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers have found the underlying experimental approaches addressing your hypotheses, and the conclusions drawn therefrom, to be "solid, significant and straightforward". Incorporating their suggestions, particularly concerning the discussion, should improve communication of the main results and significance of this work. In addition, please provide the supplemental information suggested by reviewer 1, NCBI gene accession numbers for all genes discussed (eg. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/?term=txid246197[Organism:noexp ] in either Gene_ID or MXAN_#### locus tag format), and clarify how the Calcofluor white fluorescence was measured (qualitatively as implied, or quantitatively). Please also incorporate the minor copy changes to typos or inconsistencies.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 30, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Table 1 and elsewhere: The Tn-insertion mutants and in-frame deletion mutants should be better distinguished in this table and the text. Figures 3 and 4: These figures should be formatted in the same way—it will make comparison easier to the reference wt. Currently, the fonts, scales, bars, and gridlines are all a bit different, which is a bit confusing since they show the same type of data with one sample presumably being the same. Lastly, since these are the quantitative results, it should be stated in the legend that these results are determined by “trypan blue” liquid assay. The basics of Hsp70 proteins should be introduced. In Line 291, it is explained that stkA is not “a typical bacterial Hsp70”, but a bit more background could be given. Line 313—are there other predicted Hsp70 proteins for M. xanthus?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No concerns. The methods are clearly described.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Is there any information to be gained by the fact that the stkA::Tn mutant is towards the C-terminus? Were there differences between this transposon mutant and the clean mutant that were not described? Line 324: Since supplemental files seem to be allowed by PeerJ—these double mutant results could be shown in a supplemental manner.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Table 1 and elsewhere: The Tn-insertion mutants and in-frame deletion mutants should be better distinguished in this table and the text. This represents a significant and solid effort by the authors. The study is well-done and the story is clearly laid out. A few editorial changes could make some details just a bit more clear. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "The Hsp70-like StkA functions between T4P and Dif signaling proteins as a negative regulator of exopolysaccharide in Myxococcus xanthus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.747v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 4, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors appear to have followed the PeerJ policies. The manuscript is generally concise and quite readable. References are in order and the introduction provides sufficient background to give the reader knowledge to understand the new data.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The authors provide an analysis of StkA (a DnaK/HSP70 homolog), StkB (a sterol carrier protein 2 homolog) and StkC (a PhaE homolog). Significantly, mutations in stkA restore production of EPS in a pilA mutant. The next two genes in this apparent operon, stkB and stkC, affect EPS production, but to a lesser extent than stkA. The authors constructed in-frame deletions and a number of double and triple mutants to gain a clear understanding of the function of these genes. They use a standard set of assays that are grounded in the literature and can be reproduced in other laboratories. Experiments were repeated multiple times and are likely to be statistically significant. Error bars are provided.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors conclude that StkA acts between T4P and Dif pathways to regulate EPS production. StkB and C appear to modulate the regulation. The results are quite solid and straightforward. The conclusions are supported by the data provided. The authors are careful not to over interpret their results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
General comments: It would help to give a NCBI (MXAN) number assignment to these genes. Nothing is given until page 12. What is the phenotype of a stkB pilA or stkC pilA mutant? On page 1, the order of the author’s names was different than on page 2 Specific comments: Line 7 cell group formation is an awkward term Line 14minimally by deletion of stkC Line 69 change: the T4P functions as physical sensors to T4P function as physical sensors Line 82DnaK and HSP70 Line 98E coli strains were grown and maintained on Luria Bertani (LB) agar plates or in LB liquid medium line 104Shi and Zusman used 0.3% agar – is there a reason to use 0.4%. line 113This sentence “The site of a Tn insertion in a mutant of interest was identified as has been described” is very cryptic. Can you simply give a useful name? Line 122change withr to with Line 147eliminate ‘in the manuscript’ Line 160The Rubin reference is not needed here as a specific transposon is not mentioned. Line 163Were only two EPS- mutants found among 20,000? Could you give some numbers here to give the reader a sense of the number of EPS genes? Line 168Could be shortened to read: containing the dye Calcofluor white (CW). Line 169 This sentence is redundant and can be eliminated: This observation confirmed that BY801 harbors a suppressor of <U+0394>pilA mutation in EPS production. Line 17116 were examined; were there any EPS negative transformants? P11 legendline 3: fluorescence. Was the fluorescence quantified? P11 legendHow were these spots photographed? Were these done using a microscope with UV illumination from the top? P15 Fig 3EPS overproduction is an interesting phenotype. How does overproduction of EPS affect motility (in a WT background)? Does mixing the stkA mutant with a WT impede gliding of the WT? Line 225As a DNA homolog, it seems unlikely that SktA regulates by binding directly to DNA. Any evidence (from in silico analysis perhaps) that it interacts with another protein? Line 228likely polar (not polarly); did you look at the levels of transcript to check for polar (increase or decrease) effects? Line 229MXAN Line 249It would help to describe the actual WT characteristics (pigmentation, opacity, roughness and edges) for the people who don’t work in this field. Line 251Is seems surprising that the StkA and B mutants showed poor swarming on hard medium. Was the ratio (Shi and Zusman) different? Did you look at gliding by time-lapse video? Line 253What is more vivid in color mean? Line 256Is it known that EPS contributes to colony color? This statement seems misleading. Line 259The size of the colony is not important – the data reported should be the expansion rate over time. P19 Fig 5The YZ910 colony (top right) looks pixelated. P19 Fig 5The numbers of heat-resistant spores should be reported. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "The Hsp70-like StkA functions between T4P and Dif signaling proteins as a negative regulator of exopolysaccharide in Myxococcus xanthus (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.747v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 14, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
