Review History for Development of genomic simple sequence repeat markers for Glycyrrhiza lepidota and cross-amplification of other Glycyrrhiza species [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Development of genomic simple sequence repeat markers for Glycyrrhiza lepidota and cross-amplification of other Glycyrrhiza species To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 26th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 11th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on June 25th, 2019 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 15th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Marcial Escudero
·
Jul 15, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Dr. Chung, Congratulations! You study entitled "Development of genomic simple sequence repeat markers for Glycyrrhiza lepidota and cross-amplification of other Glycyrrhiza species" has been accepted. Sincerely, Marcial. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Julin Maloof, a Section Editor covering this Section #]
label_author_1
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 30, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This the second revision of this manuscript. The authors made all the recommended changes and I suggest to accept the manuscript as it is now.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Minor changes recommended before were include.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No additional comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No additional comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Development of genomic simple sequence repeat markers for Glycyrrhiza lepidota and cross-amplification of other Glycyrrhiza species (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7479v0.2/reviews/2 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jun 25, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Marcial Escudero
·
Jun 11, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Jong Wook, Both reviewers have made suggestions to improve the manuscript. One of the reviewers is very worried about the process to identify and select the SSRs. Please, consider the suggestions from reviewers and submit a new version of the manuscript if you think you could address them. Cheers, Marcial.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
May 24, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The method was not enough and not clearly descripted for SSR identification.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The development of SSR markers is one of the most important part for the manuscript. However, there was nothing mentioned for the identified SSR number, the frequency and distribution of different SSR types in the genome.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this manuscript entitled "Development of genomic simple sequence repeat markers for Glycyrrhiza lepidota and cross-amplification of other Glycyrrhiza species" to describe the development of SSR markers in Glycyrrhiza lepidota, and use some of these markers to assess the genetic diversity. In general, this paper is good writing, but miss several important parts in methods and results. The overall research content was not enough for published on Peer J. Certain specific comments are addressed below: Major comments 1. The development of SSR markers from the genomic sequence is an important component of the entire manuscript, while the detail on SSR analysis in the method and result was missed. For example, approximately 28,000 SSRs were identified in G. lepidota. What is the criteria used for identification of different SSR motif? What are the frequency, distribution and characterization of different SSR motif? These important information were not mentioned in the manuscript. 2. The Author Contributions was also missed in the manuscript. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Development of genomic simple sequence repeat markers for Glycyrrhiza lepidota and cross-amplification of other Glycyrrhiza species (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7479v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
May 28, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This is a very well done work and it is very well presented. The authors have informed about a new set of markers very useful for different studies regarding this species. In general, writing is very clear and the objectives are very well faced. There are some minor things that I suggested to check before accepting this manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The experimental design and analysis follow the standard protocols for this kind of studies. I feel that this work is original enough to be published here. This a very well designed and performed work.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The authors have informed about the first set of SSR markers for this particular species. It is unique and hard to perform work. Their findings, despite limited to this species or their related ones, will have an impact on the upcoming studies in different areas.
Comments for the author
You have done a very intense and hard work. There are only some minor comments that I suggest you to consider. You will find them in the PDF draft. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Development of genomic simple sequence repeat markers for Glycyrrhiza lepidota and cross-amplification of other Glycyrrhiza species (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7479v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 26, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
