Review History for Evidence for a sexual dimorphism in gene expression noise in metazoan species [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evidence for a sexual dimorphism in gene expression noise in metazoan species To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 17th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 18th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on January 13th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 15th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Richard Jorgensen
·
Jan 15, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Many thanks for your substantive revisions. Looks great.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 13, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Richard Jorgensen
·
Nov 18, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Based on the reviews, I think there are two principal concerns that are not minor. One is that the presentation needs to be made more accessible. I recommend getting the help of a non-expert in the area to make sure that the article is accessible not only to those who know this area in depth, but also to other biologists. The second is that the role of technical variation needs to be addressed in a reanalysis of the data, perhaps even by generating more experimental replicates. Reviewer 2 provides additional comments that should also be addressed in any revision.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 10, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This reports an interesting finding and interpretation. It was difficult to wade through because the writing needs to be clarified and made more accessible. Other than that I think it should be accepted.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
it's fine
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
fine
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
nice work, very interesting Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evidence for a sexual dimorphism in gene expression noise in metazoan species (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.750v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Alexander de Luna ·
Nov 16, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In this manuscript, Carlos Diaz-Castillo presents evidence of dimorphism in gene-expression noise in animals. That is, variation in gene expression levels is different between organisms of different sex. Public data sets were analyzed, showing that there is statistically significant difference between: 1) CV of gene expression between male and female Drosophila flies that are genetically identical; 2) CV of gene expression between males and females under different environmental conditions; 3) Dispersal of individuals in different species from their birth place and the presence/absence of sex-determining chromosomes; and 4) CV of gene expression of Drosophila genes located in five different chromatin states. Based on these analyses, evidence of a correlation between homogametic and heterogametic genotypes and sex-dependent variability of gene expression is provided, along with its possible functional implications under different environments or phenotypes. Moreover, it is proposed that at least part of the gene-expression noise in heterogametic organisms could be explained by how the heterochromatin-forming elements are distributed in sexual chromosomes. The data sets used are relevant and carefully selected, and statistical analyses are technically sound. I just have two minor concerns and a number of suggestions: 1. At least part of the gene-expression noise is inevitably due to technical variation, and this is not taken into account or discussed as part of the analyses. While the author refers to "putative stochastic variation", it would be useful to be explicit about the components of the value that is being calculated. I wonder if some of the conclusions of this paper could change after decomposing the variation parameter. 2. It is hypothesized that heterochromatin-forming elements redistribute in different ways depending on the presence/absence of sexual chromosomes, leading to the intriguing proposal that different numbers of repetitive regions could modulate biological noise. If I understand correctly, it is being assumed that there is no regulation of the amount of elements depending on sexual chromosomes. Is there data available showing that males and females indeed have the same amount of heterochromatin-forming elements? Would this hypothesis be compatible for both W/Z and X/Y systems? Suggestions: * In its current form, it is difficult for the non-specialist to get the main message from the abstract. I suggest to cut down on background section of the abstract and providing more detailed information of what was done and what the main findings are. * When referring to males and females with the same genotype and conditions, it would be worth mentioning that this is not the case for the sex chromosomes. *It would be useful to describe in the text which species are included in the dataset of Petit and Excoffier (analysis in Table 4). *Given that Table 1 shows the main result of this work, I feel that a plot with Cvm against CVf distributions could be more striking and informative. * Figure 1 could be reorganized to avoid blank plots, or simply delete blank axes * In Figure 2, it would help if the figure showed which type of expression pattern is represented by each color (as stated in text). * Figure 3 would be easier to follow if divided in four panels that could be described one at the time in the caption. Cite this review as
de Luna A ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Evidence for a sexual dimorphism in gene expression noise in metazoan species (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.750v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 17, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
