Review History for Early Agenian rhinocerotids from Wischberg (Canton Bern, Switzerland) and clarification of the systematics of the genus Diaceratherium [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Early Agenian rhinocerotids from Wischberg (Canton Bern, Switzerland) and clarification of the systematics of the genus Diaceratherium To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 16th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 5th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on July 10th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 19th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Clara Stefen
·
Jul 19, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Authors, You took all the comments of the reviewers into account and the manuscript is improved. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Andrew Farke, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 10, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Clara Stefen
·
Jun 5, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors, We received three reviews of your manuscript, two suggested minor revisions and so prior to publication these minor revisions are necessary. Please follow the comments of the reviewers and the suggestions they made in the annotated texts I attach to this mail. Yours sincerely Clara Stefen
Download annotated manuscript
label_author_1
Luca Pandolfi ·
May 27, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Latin names should be in italics; see for example line 212 (m. interossei), line 213 (m. extensor carpalis), line 433 (m. fibularis longus).
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
One of the best papers on rhinos I reviewed during the last year. Well-done. Cite this review as
Pandolfi L ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Early Agenian rhinocerotids from Wischberg (Canton Bern, Switzerland) and clarification of the systematics of the genus Diaceratherium (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7517v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Esperanza Cerdeño ·
Jun 3, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
As a whole, the manuscript is well organized and clear, but there are some sentences or paragraphs for which I suggest some modifications in order to clarify the idea or the authors’ position (e.g., concerning systematics). The Introduction is brief and synthetic, and I suggest not revealing the precise taxonomic results (see PDF). Figures are relevant, of high quality and well described. I would only suggest alluding to them sometimes within description for some of the highlighted features.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The presented work is a review of fossil remains previously published many years ago, which leads to a new taxonomic interpretation of some of them. Some are figured for the first time. In addition, some comments on the controversial systematics of the genus Diaceratherium are also included. It is in this issue where I suggest a more detailed author’s opinion to avoid incongruences in the text (see PDF). The review is based on morphological and metrical comparisons with the known European species of the epoch (Early Miocene). I think metrical data could be gathered in one or more tables instead of being included within the descriptions, and maybe some of the compared specimens could be added to reinforce the affinities expressed in the text. Concerning Table 3, it only shows the length of the metapodials of the discussed species. I think it would be more informative showing the whole available dimensions of each metapodial, both those studied (dimensions within the text) and those compared (see comment in PDF about Table 3).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The presented comparison (concerning morphology and size) supports the taxonomic results, but better explanations in the Discussion section are needed and tables could be improved to be more informative (see PDF). Particularly, the discussion on the validity of species of Diaceratherium needs to be expanded and reviewed to avoid incongruences.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I think all my suggestions do not imply major revisions of the manuscript, but most would be necessary before publishing it. Only if the editor consider it necessary, I could evaluate the revised version. The attached PDF shows all my comments and suggestions. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Cerdeño E ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Early Agenian rhinocerotids from Wischberg (Canton Bern, Switzerland) and clarification of the systematics of the genus Diaceratherium (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7517v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Pierre-Olivier Antoine ·
Jun 5, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The English expression is excellent, at least for the non-native English speaker I am. References are up-to-date and the state of the art correctly exposed. The structure is straightforward and rigorous. I have no comment about the figures and raw data are shared. Results are relevant, new, and well supported, based on the material described.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
This manuscript meets the technical requirements of PeerJ and it matches its Aims and Scope. The research question is relevant and the results answer a 70 year-old question on the taxonomic identity of Wischberg rhinocerotids. Furthermore, this MS provides an interesting discussion on the genera Diaceratherium and Pleuroceros, with tantalizing perspectives at the European scale. I have found neither scientific nor technical flows and ethical issues are not into question. Methods are OK and the rationale is crystal clear.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
I do agree with all the taxonomic assignments and commend the authors for solving this 70-year old puzzle. Figures and measurements are provided. Repeatability is ensured by clear and thorough description, following a proven descriptive protocol. Statistics are not applicable here (but see my suggestion on body weight estimates).
Comments for the author
This is an interesting and useful work, providing new robust data on a classic locality from Switzerland. I have minor comments and suggestions aiming at improving the manuscript. You will find them below, sorted by order of appearance in the manuscript. I have also uploaded an annotated version of the merged pdf (mainly used for typos). -line 36: please provide the original words abbreviated as USM; -lines 100-108 (and Table 8 + Palaeoecology…): I would advise to be more careful with body weight estimates based only on lower molars, due to tremendous disparity in body shape and stoutness among rhinocerotids, likely to range from tapir-like to dachshund-like while having similar tooth size (Fortelius, M. 1990. In: J. Damuth and B.J. MacFadden (eds.), Cambridge University Press, Cambridge). It would be really useful to further provide estimates based on postcranial elements, such as long bones, metapodials (Fortelius, M. and Kappelman, J. 1993. Zoological Journal of Linnean Society, London 108: 85–101), and/or astragali (Tsubamoto, T. 2014. Acta Palaeontologica Polonica 59 (2): 259–265); -lines 204-209: what is the general shape of the anterior side (high, low, narrow, wide)? -lines 218-249 and 455-530: I would recommend to use your specimens from Wischberg as a reference and to overturn the corresponding sentences, such as “The referred specimens have a developed external groove and an angular trigonid on lower molars, contrary to representatives of Diaceratherium” (line 220). -lines 360-361, 601 (and throughout the MS): please homogenize spelling (UK [centimetres / palaeobiogeographical] or US [characterized]); -line 419 and throughout the MS (e.g., lines 517, 524): “astragal” shall read "astragalus" or "astragali" (plural); -line 447: does “lacking” mean broken or absent? -line 517: shall read “collum tali”; -Figure and table captions: to be complemented by providing a family-level assignment [“the rhinocerotid” or “(Perissodactyla, Rhinocerotidae)”] so that they are fully self-explanatory. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Antoine P ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Early Agenian rhinocerotids from Wischberg (Canton Bern, Switzerland) and clarification of the systematics of the genus Diaceratherium (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7517v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 16, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
