Review History for Nicotinamide riboside exerts protective effect against aging-induced NAFLD-like hepatic dysfunction in mice [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Nicotinamide riboside exerts protective effect against aging-induced NAFLD-like hepatic dysfunction in mice To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 28th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 31st, 2019. The first revision was submitted on July 26th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 29th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Cristina Nogueira
·
Jul 29, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I appreciate very much the effort you put into the revisions. Many of the original concerns have been addressed or at least explained. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 26, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Cristina Nogueira
·
May 31, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Based on the advice received, I have decided that your manuscript could be reconsidered for publication should you be prepared to incorporate minor revisions. However, we are not prepared to accept your manuscript in its present form.
label_author_1
Ana Pesarico ·
May 21, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In their manuscript, Han and colleagues report the effects of nicotinamide riboside, a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide precursor, on development of age-induced non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and inflammation liver in mice. Identifying novel, effective therapeutic compounds for liver diseases is an important goal, and the paradigm used in the present study is interesting to investigate potential new therapeutics. The experiments seem to be well performed and the results are sound, but some points need to be addressed by the authors. 1.In the keywords section, please do not use abbreviations; 2.Overall, there are quite a few grammatical errors along with sentences that are difficult to interpret. This manuscript would benefit greatly from additional proofreading and editing; For example: the word “that” sometimes do not necessary (ex. first phrase od introduction section). 3.The introduction section has much information, it is good and interesting, but the introduction needs a connection to improve the read; 4.The introduction could use additional background information about the role of NR in other diseases; 5.The last paragraph of introduction section, need demonstrate the objective, not results of manuscript; Please, in the phrase “In this study, we demonstrate that 18 months…” the word “demonstrate” need correction; 6.Why the authors used only female? A complementary study with male will be interesting; 7.The authors have three groups, but I think that a group with young mice + NR improve the study; 8.The NR compound causes toxicity in young mice? Are there some reports in the literature? 9.Please provide a reference to “Mice were transcardially perfused with 4 <U+2103> saline”. Why not PBS? 10.Please provide information about the induction of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, only the age caused this disease? 11.Please provide all F values, P values of data analyzed; The authors could make a table; 12.Why the authors did not use the young group in the immunohistochemical: 13.Please correct the phrase in the discussion section “The principal findings arose from the present study”. 14. The hepatic word is discussion section is “heptic”; 15.Please change “…we show the proof that…, by “ In the present study, we show…”; and “Vitamin” by “vitamin” Cite this review as
Pesarico A ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Nicotinamide riboside exerts protective effect against aging-induced NAFLD-like hepatic dysfunction in mice (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7568v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 26, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript is well-structured with a substantial content of data and based on significant background. The English language is used clear, though some words/expression could be changed (i.e. crux (l. 69); proofs (l. 76); hepar (l. 41)).
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The data are original. In some aspects, there are similarities (in context) with the study “Nicotinamide riboside attenuates alcohol induced liver injuries via activation of SirT1/PGC-1a/mitochondrial biosynthesis pathway” (DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2018.04.006), however, the results are different. A major issue, that needs to be mentioned in methods/discussion, is the use of female mice for the study. The authors should mention why only female mice were studied, and potential hormonal interference in the experimental data.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The discussion is well stated with the findings of the study. In addition, the authors also mention future goals for the study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript seems to be original, it is original and exciting. However, a major issue needs to be elucidated, regarding why only female mice were used. In the current form, the manuscript should be accepted with some clarifications. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Nicotinamide riboside exerts protective effect against aging-induced NAFLD-like hepatic dysfunction in mice (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7568v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 28, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
