Review History for Pronounced and prevalent intersexuality does not impede the ‘Demon Shrimp’ invasion [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Pronounced and prevalent intersexuality does not impede the ‘Demon Shrimp’ invasion To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 10th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 28th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on January 11th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on January 20th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 21st, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Kenneth De Baets
·
Jan 21, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for adding this final reference. Your paper is hereby accepted for publication. Congratulations and thanks for submitting this interesting work to PeerJ.
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
- submitted Jan 20, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Kenneth De Baets
·
Jan 15, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thanks for integrating our suggestions and responding to the questions of the reviewers and myself. The manuscript is as good as accepted. Just one minor thing which still needs to be implemented: Reference "Green Etxabe & Ford 2014" mentioned on line 36 is missing from the reference list. Please integrate this reference now as we can´t (easily) make this change after the manuscript is accepted.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 11, 2015
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Kenneth De Baets
·
Dec 28, 2014
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The influence of parasitism on intersexuality and how it might influence invading population is an interesting and still understudied research topic. The manuscript is in a good state (see comments by the reviewers), but there all still points which needs to be addressed before it can be published in PeerJ. The main points to be addressed are: 1)Merge categories “weak” and “strong infection”: You semi-quantitatively estimate the intensity of the micrisporidian infection following Yang et al. 2011 by variation in PCR band intensity which is dependent on various factors not necessarily related with the intensity of the infection (see comments by reviewer 2). Please merge the categories of weak and strong infections as this seems to have no effects on the main results and discussion. 2)The inconsistent and improper use of “significant” and p-values: As also pointed out by reviewer 2, the use of significance in the discussion and conclusions, is not inline with the listed p-values. Please verify these values and correct where necessary (see particularly comments by reviewer 2). It would help to list significant values in bold. 3)Are male intersexes functional or not ? As pointed out by reviewer 2, it might be important to investigate of male intersexes are functional or not as they do not seem to impede invasion (see comments of reviewers 2). Unsure, it these observations suggested by reviewer 2 can still be made, but it is well worth considering to make the paper even more interesting. 4)Please cite list all authors in the text when citing references with 3 authors (see comments by reviewer 1) In addition, to the points raised by the reviewers, please also address the following points: Line 60: please replace “occur on a single” with “within a single” Line 62: The paper might benefit from discussing the occurrence of intersexuality and its link with parasitism more generally as opposed to that in vertebrates. Interesting, intersexuality potentially caused by barnacles can sometimes also be recognized in fossil crustaceans (e.g., Feldmann 1998: www.jstor.org/discover/1306647). Line 74: it is unclear to what “also” refers so I would just delete it Line 117: something might have gone wrong with the pdf creation. Please verify which symbol the box behind “GelGreen” should represent. Line 133: the p-values are not significant; did you list the wrong values here; you need to be more clear what values are significant by marking them in bold; others should be discussed as non-significant Line 144: please list significant p-values in bold; please merge the strong infections and weak infections together as suggested also by reviewer 2 Line 180: “infected amphipods”: also the invaders ? Line 186, 194: you list which taxa are invading and which taxa have been living in this region since a longer time in the beginning, but it might help the reader to repeat this from time to time. Potentially you could speak about “invasive” or native in front of the taxon or behind it in brackets. Line 207-208: Please list some references for “serious sexual dysfunction”
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Dec 16, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1. The results are the separate chapter, however I agree that in this case it helps to follow the text. 2. citation of the references with 3 authors in the text: in the msc it is cited: 1st author name et al and according to the PeerJ rules all three names should be given.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No Comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
No Comments Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Pronounced and prevalent intersexuality does not impede the ‘Demon Shrimp’ invasion (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.757v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Thierry Rigaud ·
Dec 17, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript describe both high prevalence of intersexuality and parasite infection (by vertically –transmitted microsporidia) in the invasive Gammarid species Dikerogammarus haemobaphes, a new colonizer of Britain. Other, less prevalent, parasites were also identified. The involvement of these infections on the invasion success are discussed, as well as the impact of intersexuality. It is clear from the results that, while intersexes are present at incredible rate, this did not impede invasion. I would suggest authors to discuss a bit further this point. Apparently, there are no data investigating if these “male intersexes” are functional males or not. Gammarids mate after a period of mate guarding, and this trait could be quite useful to estimate if intersexes are functional or not (at least able to initiate guarding or not). During animal collection, did authors noted if animals (especially male intersexes) were in pair or free? This could provide a clue for intersexes sexual activity. Even if they are not functionally able to inseminate females, if they are able to initiate mate guarding, they may influence mating dynamics by making females with which they are paired unavailable for “real” males…
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The intensity of the microsporidian infection has been estimated (heavy infection vs. weak infection), based on a method published previously by the same research group (Yang et al. 2011, see reference list). By looking at this reference, it appears that this semi-quantification is based on the band intensity after microsporidian amplification by classical PCR (not quantitative). No replicate has been made, no DNA quantification before amplification is provided. Variation in PCR band intensity is highly condition dependent (extractions are made individual by individual, so DNA quantity or quality differ between individuals) and often non repeatable. This method is therefore not reliable. The category “weak infection” should be removed and included in the “infection” category. There would be no impact of this deletion on the overall discussion.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The discussion/conclusions about size differences between intersexes and “normal” sexes are quite disconnected with the statistics. L. 130-131, “significant differences” are claimed, while p = 0.23. I suppose the overall model is NS, but post-hos test provide a marginal significance for difference between males and females (L. 132). Post-hoc tests cannot be taken into account if the general model is NS. More importantly for conclusions, L. 188, male intersexes are said to be “significantly smaller than normal males”, while stats L. 133-134 provide NS differences. All this should be corrected.
Comments for the author
While I think these data deserve to be presented, I have two concerns with this manuscript in its present form: see "experimental design" and "Validity of findings" Cite this review as
Rigaud T ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Pronounced and prevalent intersexuality does not impede the ‘Demon Shrimp’ invasion (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.757v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 10, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
