Review History for Weight–length relationships and Fulton’s condition factors of skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis) in the western and central Pacific Ocean [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Weight–length relationships and Fulton’s condition factors of skipjack tuna ( Katsuwonus pelamis ) in the western and central Pacific Ocean To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 12th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 16th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on January 20th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 21st, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Jan 21, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been improved according the reviewers suggestions.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 20, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Dec 16, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Author, The reviewers have commented on your paper. They indicated that it is not acceptable for publication in its present form. Furthermore, English should be improved and carefully revised.
label_author_1
Felipe Amezcua ·
Dec 4, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The English language is poorly written. Authors should ask for help of a colleague whose first language is English, in order to improve on this aspect. Figures are not adequately labeled, for example, figures 1 and 3 do not explain the meaning of J-J, A-S and N-D. We can assume that, but the reader should be able to understand the figures, without reading the entire paper. The introduction and background are not properly described. It is difficult to understand the goal and the aim of this work. If the authors are trying to do a fisheries related paper, then a better description of the fishery of this species should be given in this part, and what are the problems the authors are trying to solve with their work.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors have an interesting set of data, whoever they do not have a research questions. This work is rather descriptive, as there is not a working hypothesis. Because of this, the authors struggle to outline a proper discussion, as they are not really answering any question. The methods are not adequately described; in the Results section the authors mention analyses that were never described in the Methods section. Also these are confuse, it is not clear to me why did they use the volume of the fish, and how this was estimated.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
As there is not a proper research question, there cannot be proper conclusions. The amount of data is large, and some results are interesting, but the authors fail to explain the validity and relevance of these.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Authors need to establish a proper diagram of what they are trying to achieve with this work. They need to delineate a working hypothesis, and discuss and conclude around this. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Amezcua F ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Weight–length relationships and Fulton’s condition factors of skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis) in the western and central Pacific Ocean (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.758v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Martin Soto-Jimenez ·
Dec 15, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Sorry to be late to reply for the review of the manuscript “Combining Weight-Length Relationships and condition factors to estimate the population structure for Skipjack tuna in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean”. The main goal was to investigate the fish population structure and growth progresses of Skipjack tuna by morphology parameters (length frequency,<U+200B> <U+200B>weight-length relationship and condition factor). Although the science and the methods seem adequate, the manuscript is plagued of grammatical. In spite the English is not my native language, I made a lot of corrections to improve the manuscript and I wrote several question that need to be cleared. I attached the revised manuscript. Best
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
review of the manuscript “Combining Weight-Length Relationships and condition factors to estimate the population structure for Skipjack tuna in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean”. The main goal was to investigate the fish population structure and growth progresses of Skipjack tuna by morphology parameters (length frequency,<U+200B> <U+200B>weight-length relationship and condition factor). Although the science and the methods seem adequate, the manuscript is plagued of grammatical. In spite the English is not my native language, I made a lot of corrections to improve the manuscript and I wrote several question that need to be cleared. I attached the revised manuscript. Best Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Soto-Jimenez M ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Weight–length relationships and Fulton’s condition factors of skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis) in the western and central Pacific Ocean (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.758v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 12, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
