Review History for Design, synthesis and antimicrobial activities of novel 1,3,5-thiadiazine-2-thione derivatives containing a 1,3,4-thiadiazole group [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Design, synthesis and antimicrobial activities of novel 1,3,5-thiadiazine-2-thione derivatives containing a 1,3,4-thiadiazole group To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 18th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 10th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on July 29th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on July 29th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Eder Lenardao
·
Jul 29, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been corrected and incremented according to the recommendations of the reviewers and the editor. It is suitable for publication in PeerJ now. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 29, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Eder Lenardao
·
Jun 10, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear Prof Yang Enclosed are the review comments on your manuscript. As you can see, one of the reviewers (R2) suggested its rejection. However, I could consider a revision if you are able to meet the suggestions and questions of Reviewer #2 (as well as Reviewer 1).
label_author_1
Rodrigo Cella ·
May 28, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
There are a couple of misspelling in the manuscript, I corrected them and highlighted in the attached file. References should be arranged in alphabetical order. I believe there is a small mistake in stoichiometric calculation in experimental section The new compounds are well characterized, however I missed a little more information or discusion about their synthesis.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript described a very interesting and well succeed hypothesis of mix two different classes of compound, with different biological activities in only one molecule to improve those biological activities, being possible to use a single compound for different application. Nice work Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Cella R ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Design, synthesis and antimicrobial activities of novel 1,3,5-thiadiazine-2-thione derivatives containing a 1,3,4-thiadiazole group (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7581v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 10, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The manuscript describes the design, the synthesis and the bioassay results of 1,3,5-thiadiazine-2-thione derivatives. The products synthesized demonstrated promise possibilities on the agrochemical field. However, an overview of the paper exhibits an insufficient discussion of the results, and an unclear findings about the improvements obtained in this paper compared with the literature.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The manuscript demonstrates a great number of results, and all compounds were proper characterized.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The manuscript demonstrates a poor discussion about the optimization of the synthetic procedures, other synthetic route available and yields variation. About the biological studies, they were conducted by structure modifications in a concise way, but without a deep and clear discussion.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
So, I have added some comments that could improve the quality of the manuscript. 1-Materials – In this section, more information about the equipment and analysis should be provided: Model and probe of NMR; charge source and operating HRMS; and visualization procedures for TLC. 2-Line 181, putting data instead of date; 3-The Table 1 is presented in the Results and Discussion, but any discussion and/or arguments are described on the main text. Thus, I recommend putting the Table 1 in the support information. Additionally, I recommend using the standard models (organic synthesis) to describe all characterization data; 4-Small comments are described about the Table 2. Additionally, the points evaluated on the comments are not necessary because they are consolidated subjects on the base literature. I strongly recommend putting the Table 2 in the support information or inside of the protocols section, as described above, and a full discussion about synthetic route, purification and yields variation must be carried out. As the subtitle “Design and Synthesis”, a discussion about others synthetic protocols must be related; 5-I recommend putting the Table 5 in the support information. This discussion about the crystallographic data should be carried out before the biological evaluation and together with spectroscopy and spectrometry comments; 6-A figure with all structures evaluated on the biological assays should be added in the main text, before biological studies, for a clear understanding of the results; 7-The antibacterial effects of title compounds against Xoo should be added in a graphical form and not written in the main text; 8-During the biological evaluating a comparation with commercial and/or similar compounds should be carried out. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Design, synthesis and antimicrobial activities of novel 1,3,5-thiadiazine-2-thione derivatives containing a 1,3,4-thiadiazole group (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7581v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 18, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
