Review History for Differential mechanisms underlying responses of soil bacterial and fungal communities to nitrogen and phosphorus inputs in a subtropical forest [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Differential mechanisms underlying responses of soil bacterial and fungal communities to nitrogen and phosphorus inputs in a subtropical forest To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 12th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 15th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on August 2nd, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 6th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Xavier Le Roux
·
Aug 6, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors, I am pleased to inform you that, following the revision made based on the reviewer’s comments, your manuscript is now acceptable for publication in PeerJ. Best regards Xavier LE ROUX [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Dezene Huber, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 2, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Xavier Le Roux
·
May 15, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors, Both reviewers and myself found that your study has merits and deserves publication in PeerJ, but suggested a number of - most of them minor - adjustments/complements. Please take all comments into account during the revision process. Would you disagree with a suggestion, please clearly indicate why. Note that one of the reviewer has attached an annotated pdf; and that I have also attached an annotated word file, both including comments and suggestions that you will have to consider. Looking forward to receiving the revised version. best regards, Xavier
label_author_1
Dima Chen ·
May 4, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
This MS detected the effects of N and P addition on soil microbial communities in a subtropical forest. As noted by authors, there was a wide and broad research regarding this topic in grassland ecosystems while was relative lack of research in subtropical forest. Unlike arid or semi-arid grasslands, they found that: 1) N addition decreased bacterial species richness and diversity and resulted in a substantial shift of bacterial community composition, whereas P addition did not; 2) Neither N nor P addition changed fungal species richness, diversity, and fungal community composition; and 3) the shift in bacterial community composition was attributable to an increase in soil acid cations while the shift in fungal community composition was attributable to soil nutrients. The experiment design is reasonable, statistical analysis is ok, and English write is fine. The topic seems suitable for the Journal of PeerJ. Here, I have some minor issues regarding this MS. 1.Line 22-23. The appearance of this sentence is abrupt because you did not mention any pathways in precious sentences at all. 2.Line 257-258. “whereas pH (17.0%), SOC (19.1%), and MBC (41.4%) collectively contributed to 65.2% of the variation”, this sentence for which parameter? Fungal diversity? 3.Line 280. 0.05% should be 5%. 4.One suggestion is that you should cooperate the SEM with Stepwise regression (determinations for alpha-diversity) or partial Mantel test (determinations for beta-diversity) in discussion section. Because all these methods were used to detect the determinations for diversity. Cite this review as
Chen D ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Differential mechanisms underlying responses of soil bacterial and fungal communities to nitrogen and phosphorus inputs in a subtropical forest (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7631v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 12, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a solidly done piece of research and very novel in terms of offering new understanding of the processes involved. I am very impressed with the quality of this manuscript these are thorough analyses, thoughtful discussion points. I think this would make a very good contribution to the journal.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This manuscript explored the responses of soil bacterial and fungal communities and soil parameters to five-year nitrogen and phosphorus addition in a subtropical forest. The authors measured the differences in soil bacterial and fungal communities under N and/or P addition compared to control.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Some interesting results were found: (1) N and P addition both increased soil Al3+ and only N addition decreased soil pH; (2) Only N addition decreased bacterial species richness and diversity and neither N nor P addition shifted fungal species richness, diversity and community structure; and (3) SEM result showed that shift in bacterial community composition was attributable to increase in soil acid cations (Al3+) and fungal community composition was closely related with soil nutrients (SOC, TN, DOC), suggesting different ways in which N and P addition influence bacterial and fungal community. The statistical analysis (i.e., NMDS, ANOSIM, ADONIS, MRPP and SEM) is suitable for the data and provide a sound support for the conclusion. The topic is meaningful for the region and provides some important ecological evidence on responses of bacterial and fungal communities to NP input, which will attract the readers of Peer J.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
There are some concerns, which need to be addressed before the paper can be finally accepted for publication. 1.L21. Change “ecosystem function” to “ecosystem functions” 2.L35-36. Change “our results suggest that … in the subtropical forest in different ways.” To “… in different ways in subtropical forest” 3.L58. Delete functional traits 4.L93. Change “does not” to “did not” 5.L303-304. There is a mistake “copiotrophic phylum (Saccharibacteria), oligotrophic phylum (Saccharibacteria)”. Chloroflex should be oligotrophic 6.L392. Change “cause” to “induced” 7.L395-397. This sentence “Take together….shift in bacterial and fungal community composition” could mislead the reader. Please revise it. 8.Line 400. Delete “experiment”. 9.Line 401. Change “decreases” to “decreased”. 10.Captain of Fig. 6, “fungal diversity (c-d)”. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Differential mechanisms underlying responses of soil bacterial and fungal communities to nitrogen and phosphorus inputs in a subtropical forest (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7631v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 12, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
