Review History for The complete mitochondrial genomes of five longicorn beetles (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) and phylogenetic relationships within Cerambycidae [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The complete mitochondrial genomes of five longicorn beetles (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) and phylogenetic relationships within Cerambycidae To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 14th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 17th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on July 30th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 6th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ilaria Negri
·
Aug 6, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The current version of the manuscript has been significantly improved. The authors provided better explanations of methods and approaches used in the study, correct some unclear or not scientifically sound sentences and terms. I think that the work can be now accepted for publication (in this version I noticed some typos throughout the text, but I guess that the authors still have the chance to correct them). [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by David Roberts, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 30, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ilaria Negri
·
Jul 17, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
In my opinion this manuscript needs only minor revisions. For instance, some scientific terms need to be revised (e.g. paraphyly vs non-monophyly), some or clearer info should be provided (e.g. the partition schemes and models inferred by PartitionFinder; pre-settings for partitions of alignments; if additional primers were used as sequencing primers over the 11 amplicons or not). Authors should also clarify why they choose to use only nucleotide data and not aminoacid sequences. I also believe that the findings about the mitogenome of Pterolophia sp (i.e., is the presence of a large intergenic region) is particularly interesting but unfortunately the authors cannot confirm if this represents a synapomorphy.
label_author_1
Francesco Nardi ·
Jun 5, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Dr Wang and collaborators have sequenced five new mitogenomes of cerambycids. The manuscript presents a description of the genomes and a phylogenetic reconstruction of the group. The genomes are well described and provide some insight into the genome evolution in the group. The phylogenetic reconstructions provide some new insights, even if they are not conclusive (something that is nevertheless not unexpected given the complexity of the group). The genomic section is well structured and clear. The phylogenetic analyses are standard in the field. The introduction and discussion, with ample reference to preexisting literature, are above standard for this type of studies. I encourage the Editor to seek for advice from a specialist of cerambycids, as I am not in the position to evaluate this part of the study. In the end, I would suggest publication after minimal editing (see comments above). - Language is clear and correct. - Intro and backgroud are clear and reference to preexisting literature is ample. - Structure of the manuscript seems to conform to PeerJ standards. - Figures are relevant and high quality (minor comments below). - Sqn files covering all new genomes with annotations are proveded as raw data.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
- Research is within the scopes of the journal - Research question well defined and relevant for the currect knowledge of cerambycid mitochondrial genomics. - Research is conducted according to ‘standard’ methodological standards in the field. - Methods are described in sufficient detail (minor comments below)
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
- Impact and novelty not assessed, as from the journal’s instruction to reviewers. - Sequence data have been provided and, most important, will be made available through GenBank. - Correctness of sequence data is assumed. Given the twist of OpenJ towards ‘openness’, I would encourage the authors to make the two alignments available through the journal’s website. - Speculation is limited and identifiable. - Conclusions are well in line with the results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Lines 93-94: please rewrite. Lines 112-114: it is not clear wether the additional primers were used as sequencing primers over the 11 amplicons or to amplify/sequence additional fragments. Line 151: how were starting minimal partitions for PartitionFinder identified? Lines 154-156: please confirm that these models are the ones identified by PartitionFinder. Line 157: 10 million generations may not be appropriate for a dataset of this size. Please check traces in Tracer to confirm optimal convergence. Line 170 and elsewhere: please refer to the ancestral Pancrustacean arrangement as such (to benefit the non specialist reader). Line 239: please define ‘conserved’. In structure? In sequence? In molecular features? The notion of the AT rich region is conserved sounds a little strange. Line 251: why ‘unexpectedly’? Line 264: randomly meaning equally? Line 294: did the authors observe any similarity in sequence between the spacer and any of the neighbouring tRNAs that would support their model? Tables S1-7: please check column formatting for uniformity (this may be a file conversion problem) Figure 1: column height (sum of two columns for S and L if collectively analyzed) should, in my understanding, sum to the number of different codons for a given aminoacid. S in the last panel, on the other hand, seems to sum to 7.5 (in figure as in table). Please check. Figure S6. Naming tRNAs using alphabetic letters is useless and slightly confusing. I would valorize the grid pattern of this figure naming columns (species) and rows (tRNAs) instead. Figures S1-S5. Considering that base composition/skews are not very informative at the nucleotide scale, and that gene order is conserved, the authors may evaluate the possibility to simplify figures into one single collective schematic representation of genomes. Figure 2: the second step of panel a is not totally clear. Didn’t the authors hypothesize an incorrect match between the two copies of the repeat? Figures 3-4: figures appear at slightly low resolution in my pdf. Would it be possible to have a better image definition is the final output? Cite this review as
Nardi F ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "The complete mitochondrial genomes of five longicorn beetles (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) and phylogenetic relationships within Cerambycidae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7633v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 9, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Wang et al. present a good paper looking at mitochondrial phylogenomics of Cerambycidae, adding additional five longicorn beetle mitogenomes. This work contributes to the reconstruction of higher-level phylogeny of Cerambycidae. The large intergenic region identified in the new mitogenomes is interesting. Whether this feature can serve as a synapomorphy of Pterolophia need further sequencing more mitogenomes in this group. Whether this feature can serve as a synapomorphy for the genus Pterolophia need sequencing more mitogenomes in this group.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Although this MS is pretty well written, some sentences need to be improved. I've made some editorial suggestions on a copy of the manuscript which will be attached to this review. This shouldn't be too hard to turn around for publication. I have a couple of points which need addressing. 1) The Cerambycinae and Lepturinae was recovered to be non-monophyletic, because the Lepturinae is paraphyletic in Figure 4 and the Cerambycinae is polyphyletic in Figure 3-4. Thus, using non-monophyletic may be suitable to describe the Cerambycinae and Lepturinae. 2) The pre-settings for partitions of alignments should be provided. For example, you can set 15 blocks according to gene types or 41 blocks according to codon positions and gene types. Additionally, the partition schemes inferred by PartitionFinder should also be presented in this paper. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "The complete mitochondrial genomes of five longicorn beetles (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) and phylogenetic relationships within Cerambycidae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7633v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Jul 17, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Clear and unambiguous, professional English used throughout
Experimental design
label_ed_3
Methods described with sufficient detail & information to replicate
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
Conclusions are well stated, linked to original research question & limited to supporting results.
Comments for the author
The manuscript entitled “The complete mitochondrial genomes of <U+FB01>ve longicorn beetles (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) and phylogenetic relationships within Cerambycidae” was well organized and clearly written in terms of grammar and style. The most important scientific contribution of this study is five new mitochondrial genomes of Cerambycid species have been determined. This study attempts to reconstruct the mitochondrial phylogeny of Cerambycidae but has some issues unsolved. My suggestions are as follows: 1. In methods section, authors stated “The optimal partitioning scheme and best models were selected by the program PartionFinder 1.1.1…”, but the result of partitioning scheme and models have not been showed. 2. in RESULTS AND DISCUSSION section, the authors discussed the non-coding region and stated “According to Du et al. (2017), four species of Hycleus genera harbor similar lengths of large intergenic region…”, but this expression was not appropriated. Du et al. 2017 emphasized the location and sequence similarity of the non-coding region in Hycleus species, but not the lengths. 3. For phylogenetic analysis, why only nucleotide data were used? Why do not use amino acid sequences? Or both? Previous studies showed that the Coleoptera phylogeny is sensitive to different mitochondrial datasets and analytical methods. In my opinion, additional phylogenetic analyses with more datasets (amino acid and nucleotide with different partitions) and more analytical methods (ML, MrBayes and PhyloBayes) are necessary. Some issues have not resolved in the phylogenetic analysis in this manuscript, and the authors have not attempted more. I think maybe some issues would be well recovered if the phylogenetic analyses were complemented with more datasets and more analytical methods (maybe not). But this would greatly improve the manuscript. 4. Several figures are of not good quality, and need to be improved. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "The complete mitochondrial genomes of five longicorn beetles (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) and phylogenetic relationships within Cerambycidae (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7633v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 14, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
