Review History for Two new species of Notodasus Fauchald, 1972 (Annelida: Capitellidae) from the Central Indo-Pacific region [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Two new species of Notodasus Fauchald, 1972 (Annelida: Capitellidae) from the Central Indo-Pacific region To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 28th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 19th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on August 2nd, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 6th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Patricia Gandini
·
Aug 6, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Authors, Thank you for attending to the concerns of the reviewers. I think now your paper is ready for publication. Congratulations! [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by David Roberts, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 2, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Patricia Gandini
·
Jun 19, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors, both reviewers conclude that your work is an important contribution to the knowledge for the taxonomy of the family Capitellidae and that it has excellent drawings, Congratulations!!!. Although the work is well written, I recommend that it be re-checked by an English speaking colleague to improve the introduction especially. I hope that the authors make the corrections suggested by both reviewers to be able to re-evaluate your paper for publication.
label_author_1
Wagner Magalhaes ·
Jun 11, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript described two new species of a small capitellid genus. Both species are from a region in which the genus Notodasus was not previously collected. The species are fully described and the illustrations are of great quality. The authors provide comparisons of their new species with the most morphologically similar congeners and also provide a key to all species described in Notodasus.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript is well written and the findings are well justified. I have only provided some minor suggestions to improve the text. The figures are of great quality but the authors should indicate the position of some features such as prostomium, peristomium, transition between thorax and abdomen and chaetigers 12 and 13. This will facilitate interpretation of the figures. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Magalhaes W ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Two new species of Notodasus Fauchald, 1972 (Annelida: Capitellidae) from the Central Indo-Pacific region (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7638v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Camila da Silva ·
Jun 15, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Even though English is not the mother language of the authors, I think the manuscript is well written; however, I'd suggest you to improve the section "Introduction" to make it a little bit clearer. I made some correction along this section (pdf file) and a few arrangements on the sentences. Please, check if the meaning of the sentence remained. Suggestions (also see pdf file): Line 37: Please, review this number. Currently, they are over 14,000 described species; see new papers (Bleidorn et al., 2015). Line 49: Improve this sentence, please. Line 73: I suggest you to improve this sentence. I made some suggestions to make it clearer. Check if the meaning remained the same. Line 76: Re-write this sentence, please. I didn't understand what you meant. Use comas to make your sentence clearer. Line 82: The word “yield” means another thing that doesn’t fit into this sentence in my opinion. It’s just a suggestion. Line 84: I think you should not generalize; there are oceans where this genus has not been studied yet. Still on line 84, the term “discover”, besides highly used on taxonomic papers, it’s not appropriate. We do not "discover" new species, they were there! We have the opportunity to identify them. Again, it’s just my opinion.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The descriptions and discussion of the new species are very good and concise. However, I made some corrections (pdf file) and a few suggests in these sections. Line 299: The type of epithelium IS a morphological character, so I'd suggest you to include "other morphological cgaracters" on this sentence. Figure 3: Despite you put the abbreviations on figure 3 I can't see them. Check them, please. Figure 6: Include abbreviations on legend. Figure 7: Include abbreviations on legend. Figure 9: The contrast of these images is not very good; try to edit them. Maybe, do not use a black bottom; try a dark gray if you couldn’t improve the images.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
This study is very important and helpful for the taxonomy of the family Capitellidae, which has been studying more frequently on the last years, fortunately. The report of new species is a sign we still have to pay efforts to know and understand our species diversity worldwide. Besides, researches made at poorly studied areas are very important as well.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Very good work with amazing drawings! Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
da Silva C ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Two new species of Notodasus Fauchald, 1972 (Annelida: Capitellidae) from the Central Indo-Pacific region (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7638v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 28, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
