Review History for Effects of mechanical and chemical control on invasive Spartina alterniflora in the Yellow River Delta, China [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effects of mechanical and chemical control on invasive Spartina alterniflora in the Yellow River Delta, China To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 21st, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 28th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on July 31st, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 10th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Gabriela Nardoto
·
Aug 10, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors, the revised version of the manuscript is clearly an improved version of it that deserves now to be published in PeerJ. Thank you for addressing every reviewer's comments and reporting that clearly in your rebuttal letter. Congratulations! Best regards, Gabriela Nardoto # PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by David Roberts, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #
Download annotated manuscript Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 31, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Gabriela Nardoto
·
May 28, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear authors, This manuscript presents such interesting data on the potential mechanical and chemical control on Spartina alterniflora invasion in China. The three reviewers were quite positive to the way the manuscript was presented. Most of the reviewers’ minor concerns were related to the English editing, some literature updating in the introduction section and the presentation of the discussion. Therefore, whether the authors would be able to provide a new version of the manuscript that incorporates the reviewer's concerns they will have an improved version of it potentially being a well worth paper to be published in PeerJ. Here are some specific points stressed below that should be seriously taken into account: 1.The whole text needs English polishing to substantially improve clarity; 2.The research question should be better defined. 3.Fig. 1 should bring more details and perform according to the reviewer’s suggestions. 4.In the discussion, the authors should bring a better interpretation of their data and how the work fill any gap in the literature revealing their novelty and/or importance in a more concise and clearer way to send the main message of the paper. 5.Incorporate some important literature about the topic that was not explored in the introduction and/or discussion. 6.Please see the attached file one of the reviewers sent and incorporate the suggestions made especially those regarding M&M and results. 7.Every other specific point highlighted by the reviewers should be carefully addressed. Sincerely, Gabriela Nardoto
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 18, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I think this work is helpful for S. alterniflora manaement around the world. But some of problems should be clarified and revised before it could be published on PeerJ.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1, The research question should be further clarified. At now stage the research question is not defined. 2, The methods, i.e., the map of the waterlogging, mowing, tilling, should be illustrated with the in situ map, to show how the experiments were performed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The author should provide the costs of each approach proposed in this research. Futhermore, it should be compared with other studies to show the novelty of their work.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
It is an interesting work. I think it could be accepted if my concerns were reponded carefully. 1, The research question should be further clarified. At now stage the research question is not defined. 2, The methods, i.e., the map of the waterlogging, mowing, tilling, should be illustrated with the in situ map, to show how the experiments were performed. 3, The author should provide the costs of each approach proposed in this research. Futhermore, it should be compared with other studies to show the novelty of their work. 4, The author should provided a figure to show the spatial position, and the distribution of S. alterniflora at YRD. 5, The discussion part should be further improved to show the novelty of this work. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effects of mechanical and chemical control on invasive Spartina alterniflora in the Yellow River Delta, China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7655v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Ming Nie ·
May 22, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Spartina alterniflora is a worldwide invasive species. Many countries and local governments are trying to control its invasion and restore native ecosystems. However, the controlling approaches largely depend on local situations. This work was preformed to control this species in in the Yellow River Delta, where is an important ecological zone. Authors successfully applied an integrated approach to control Spartina according to previous studies and gave suggestions on ecological restoration. The results have great reference significance for different places to carry out effective restoration. The paper was well wrote in English and provided clear figs/tabs. Here, I suggest authors to add another cases in other places in the Introduction section, such as Yangtze River estuary, and they can show a big picture of Spartina control.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
In the Fig. 1, I suggest authors to add more information about experiment design, such as mechanical and chemical controls, timing, etc.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Validity of the findings is good.
Cite this review as
Nie M ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effects of mechanical and chemical control on invasive Spartina alterniflora in the Yellow River Delta, China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7655v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
May 23, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The English of this article need to be revised by native speaker, because many of the sentences are too hard to understand. The background of the study in the introduction part need to be added.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
No comment.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
No comment.
Comments for the author
The article studied different approaches used to control S. alterniflora. This is useful for the protection and management of coastal wetland ecosystem. However, the artilce need to revised carefully, including the language and the structure or logic. For example, the "Material and method“ and "Results" should be revised to make them more concise. Specific comments are listed in the attacted file. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Effects of mechanical and chemical control on invasive Spartina alterniflora in the Yellow River Delta, China (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7655v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 21, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
