Review History for Nurturing 21st century physician knowledge, skills and attitudes with medical home innovations: the Wright Center for Graduate Medical Education teaching health center curriculum experience [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Nurturing 21st century physician knowledge, skills and attitudes with medical home innovations: the Wright Center for Graduate Medical Education teaching health center curriculum experience To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 27th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 13th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on January 22nd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 23rd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
David Solomon
·
Jan 23, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the reviewers' and my concerns. I am pleased to accept your paper for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 22, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Solomon
·
Dec 13, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
This is an interesting study. Unfortunately I have to agree with the second reviewer that the use of resident self-assessments of their knowledge and skills is not in itself an adequate evaluation of the program. As noted in the manuscript at the bottom of page 14, "Correlation of residents’ self-reported KSA of PCMH competencies with competency-based global 360 evaluations, direct observation tools, and ACGME reportable milestones outcomes, as well as patient care delivery process and health outcomes, are required before firm inferences can be made from our results." I couldn't agree more. The study design is fairly robust and evaluating the effectiveness of these educational innovations would be of considerable interest. Just knowing residents feel they have gained knowledge and skills over the course of their educational program however is of limited value. Given PeerJ's review criteria I think the paper is publishable but it would be a lot more useful if it were possible to include measures of the residents' actual rather than self-reported knowledge and skills. As noted by the reviewers, the PCMH Clinician Assessments are not described in adequate detail. It would be helpful to be able to view the scale items. Perhaps a copy could be placed on the Web with a link included in the Methods Section. Though the paper states the scale has been validated, no validity data or references to studies assessing the validity are provided other than scale reliability which in of itself is not a measure of validity. I think this issue needs to be addressed before the manuscript can be published. It would also be helpful to have a better understanding of the PCMH curriculum. It's hard to make sense of the study results without knowing more about how the curriculum received by the THC residents differed from the TR residents. I expect the curriculum is described in detail somewhere on your program web site. A link to such a description would be useful and avoid having to lengthen the manuscript. Please be sure to define each acronym used. A few were missed and may not be familiar to some readers, particularly those outside the USA. As noted by the second reviewer the writing could be be simplified. The use of so many acronyms even when defined makes it very hard to read if you are not familiar with the terminology. If there is a way to cut down on the use of acronyms, the paper would be easier to read. Also PeerJ does not provide copy editing so please check your revision very carefully for typos. The two reviewers were kind enough to provide a considerable amount of additional feedback I hope you will find their feedback helpful in revising the manuscript.
label_author_1
Stacie Schmidt ·
Dec 8, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Very well-written article. Onequestion I had, which was not clearly stated, is: It sounds as though the THC program was not developed until 2011? The article says " In 2011, THCGME pioneering grantees included 9 Family Medicine, one dental, and one Internal Medicine residencies." But it does not expressly state that their THC track started in 2011. If a THC program did in fact exist before implementation of the PCMH curriculum in 2011, it would have been helpful to have comparison surveys from 2009 and 2010 THC graduates (prior to implementation of the PCMH curriculum). Figure 1 should have the top table labeled "May 2012" and the bottom table labeled "Nov 2012." Tables 1 - 4 are sufficiently labeled and easy to follow.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
What is the PCMH Clinician Assessment tool? Is this a competency assessment created by the authors, or is it a validated / otherwise proven instrument used elsewhere and / or cited in the literature?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Overall, a very well-written paper, and exciting! I would definitely reference where the PCMH Clinicians Assessment tool can be found / used, as I would be interested in using it on residents at out institution! Cite this review as
Schmidt S ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Nurturing 21st century physician knowledge, skills and attitudes with medical home innovations: the Wright Center for Graduate Medical Education teaching health center curriculum experience (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.766v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 12, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The purpose of this prospective cohort study was to assess impact of patient centered medical home curriculum interventions on 24 Internal Medicine residents’ self-reported knowledge, skills and attitudes. Residents were divided into two groups; Traditional track and Teaching Health Center track, and follow during their three years of training. Curricular innovations were implemented July 2011 through May 2012 for the THC residents and then in 2012 were implemented across both programs. Semi-annual validated assessments of PCMH competencies were completed by all residents. Introduction – The authors make a compelling case for the study since little literature is available on resident knowledge, attitude and skills related to PCMH competencies. Recent relevant literature is cited. The theoretical framework for curriculum design is not clearly presented.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Methods – The study was IRB approved (human subjects approval). The interventions were tested on one group of residents in the THC track before being applied to the other group in the TR track. Baseline data were captured on both groups of residents. Demographic details among the residents in both tracks were compared. Residents in early graduating classes also completed the assessments so comparisons could be made among residents receiving none, some and all of the PCMH interventions. Although it is stated that “validated PCMH Clinician Assessments were completed by all Internal Medicine residents,” no evidence for validity is provided. Were they validated by the researchers or adopted from another source? Which PCMH competencies were knowledge, which were attitudes and which were skills? Explanation of the assessment tools is quite vague.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Results – Although the results are clearly presented and the tables and figures add value to data interpretation, it is difficult to assess the contribution of these data without knowing more about, or seeing, the self-assessment that residents completed. While an important contribution, self-assessment as a sole source of information is a low level program evaluation. Discussion – On page 12 it is noted that “Our study provides evidence that intentional PCMH curricular innovations can improve residents’ self-reported KSA in areas reported as deficient in Kaiser Permanente’s survey.” What the Kaiser Permanente survey assessment applied in this study? Or, is this just a reference to PCMH deficiencies in general? The limitations of this study are significant. Studying self-reported data as a sole source of assessment does not add value to the understanding of PCMH competency acquisition. As the authors note: “There remains a need to explore the relationship between enhanced residents’ self–reported KSA with milestones guided, competency based evaluations and direct observation tools as required by the ACGME’s Next Accreditation System, as well as with enhanced patient care delivery processes and health outcomes.” At least one other data source should have been included in the present study to lend credibility to the project. Including another source of data would have reduced some sources of bias. It is a good thing that the residents thought they gained in KAS but these data are not sufficient from a program evaluation perspective.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Grammatical revisions: In general, the wording of several sentences is overly complex, which makes for cumbrous reading. The manuscript needs editing for “ease of readability.” Examples: 1.This study provides evidence of changes in residents’ selfreported [self-reported should be hyphenated] KSA of PCMH competencies in support of the teaching health center based curriculum that aligns graduate medical education with the complexities of health care reform and patient care needs. 2.PCMH based didactics enhancements and resident engagement in reflective CQI within ambulatory venues with or pursuing NCQA PCMH certification were focally applied to 2011 THC residents from training initiation in July 2011 and were spread program wide in May 2012. 3.CQI projects were developed and shared as part of Pennsylvania Academy of Family Practice’s Improving Performance in Practice Residency Program/Community Health Center Collaborative with monthly team calls and quarterly learning sessions. Sentence example #1 and #2 seem to be two sentences crammed together. Sentence #3 needs to be rearranged, e.g., CQI projects were developed and shared during monthly team calls and quarterly learning sessions as part of Pennsylvania Academy of Family Practice’s Improving Performance in Practice Residency Program/Community Health Center Collaborative. OR, “As part of Pennsylvania Academy of Family Practice’s Improving Performance in Practice Residency Program/Community Health Center Collaborative, CQI projects were developed and shared during monthly team calls and quarterly learning sessions. Page 5; spell out FQHC the first time Page 6; spell out CQI the first time Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Nurturing 21st century physician knowledge, skills and attitudes with medical home innovations: the Wright Center for Graduate Medical Education teaching health center curriculum experience (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.766v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 27, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
