Review History for Some poleward movement of British native vascular plants is occurring, but the fingerprint of climate change is not evident [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Some poleward movement of British native vascular plants is occurring, but the fingerprint of climate change is not evident To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 5th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 15th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on May 1st, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 1st, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
David Roberts
·
May 1, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
None - many thanks for your submission
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 1, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Roberts
·
Apr 15, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Beyond those comments of the reviewers, in Figs 1 and 2 there are some clearly bimodal plots, and when that occurs, then I don't think that circular means are useful. Finally apologies for the delay, I have had problems finding willing reviewers.
label_author_1
Anthony Davy ·
Apr 5, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
‘Occupancy’, ‘detection/non-detection’ etc. are not actually defined. Some later parts, such as the calculation of momentum, are not easy to follow because of this. The presentation comes over as a little parochial: for an international audience it would be worth explaining terms such as ‘vice-county’. ‘That is’ in P6 L20 is not a very clear or grammatical way of starting a sentence. Circular averages that are the marginal resultant of largely counterbalancing values are not very convincing intuitively but I suppose this is the nature of circular geometry. In Figs 3 & 4 it would be helpful to give the number of species contributing to each category. In Tables 1 & 2 the overall average is the mean of the four partitions. Presumably there are many species in more than one partition and so there would be multiple accounting for these? These two tables could be conflated.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The details of the methodology are presented in another paper, in press, and not available to the reviewer. So all this must be taken on trust. A reference should be given for the BSBI distribution database.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I am happy with these.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
There are many reasons why British plants would not show poleward (or even other) shifts in distribution in response to climatic change but these are all well discussed or accounted for in the paper. It was well worth investigating, given such a good database (and so many species) to work with, even though it was a short period in plant dispersal terms, in which there had been a tiny amount of average warming. It would be interesting to repeat it in another 20 years. Cite this review as
Davy AJ ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Some poleward movement of British native vascular plants is occurring, but the fingerprint of climate change is not evident (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.77v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 19, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is well written, with citation of appropriate literature. Methods: reference to Groom (2013), an unpublished paper, could not be accessed.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Data appears only to be available from 1978 onwards, and probably recording has increased markedly over this time period? Comparison of the two adjacent 16 year periods 1978-1994 and 1995- 2011 gives weak findings. The partitioning of England into N & S appears rather arbitrary? Is it supported by the natural distribution of the species recorded? For example, Goodyera repens, one of the selected northern species, has a southern range limit across Northumbria and Cumbria. Was the data examined for significant collector bias? Any evidence of repeat collections or specific targeted areas, not previously surveyed?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The work is interesting, but the results should not be over-interpreted: - other major factors may outweigh the apparent temperature effects e.g. habitat loss/land use/conservation effort/human activity/reintroductions? Some British species are thought to have suffered range contraction linked to habitat loss/ change of land use, and in an opposite direction to that expected by considering climate change. - with only a rise of 0.25°C in annual temperature over this 32-year period, and with time lags in plant migration it’s not unexpected that signals of migration are weak. This could be clarified in the abstract.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Some poleward movement of British native vascular plants is occurring, but the fingerprint of climate change is not evident (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.77v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 5, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
