Review History for Comparison of injury pattern and clinical outcomes between young adults and elderly patients with alcohol-related injury in South Korea 2011–2016 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Comparison of injury pattern and clinical outcomes between young adults and elderly patients with alcohol-related injury in South Korea 2011–2016 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 16th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 2nd, 2019. The first revision was submitted on August 16th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 19th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Bob Patton
·
Aug 19, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your revised manuscript and accompanying comments. I am pleased to inform you that this paper has now been accepted for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 16, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Bob Patton
·
Aug 2, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for your submission. This was well received by both reviewers. You should revise the abstract as suggested and providing additional detail as to the study design and methodology. Any further detail you can add with regard to levels of consumption would enhance your submission.
label_author_1
Tony Rao ·
Jul 10, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This research study explores an area that is relevant to a cross-disciplinary readership and is of considerable relevance to clinical practice. It is coherent and succinct. The aims are clearly stated with structured data that is well organised. The results, discussion and limitations are clearly linked to the aims and methodology.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The methodology is robust, with a large data set interrogated to produce results that have sufficient power and significance to reduce the likelihood of false positive and negative results. Although limited by retrospective design and hence limited by ascertainment and observer bias, the sample size is representative, with the use of a control group against which to compare odds ratios of relative risk. Outcomes are valid and statistical analysis appropriate to experimental design.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The study is of high quality and fills a gap in knowledge surrounding the association between injury and alcohol use, with adequate reference to the literature,. It has considerable external validity, given that it draws on data obtained from clinical settings that could be conveniently replicated across other similar settings in other countries.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I found this paper of high quality, with robust aims, hypothesis, methodology, reporting of results and the discussion was balanced, qualified by limitations to the interpretation of results. Cite this review as
Rao T ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Comparison of injury pattern and clinical outcomes between young adults and elderly patients with alcohol-related injury in South Korea 2011–2016 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7704v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Fiona Wisniacki ·
Jul 29, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The first paragraph ie the abstract part needs to be a synopsis of the paper ie defining and improving to make it more succinct and accurate:In the first paragraph, background rick should be risk. Not really understanding the methodology ie sentence:but those who visited the ED 48 h after injury, with unknown clinical outcomes. I'm assuming this was a retrospective study. Were the notes reviewed? Where did the information initially come from to get the patient group? So I would suggest that the initial abstract is revised ie background and methods. The above is clarified in the materials and methods in the main body of the paper. Was there any information about quantity of alcohol consumed? Any audit C data? This is still seen as the best tool for elderly alcohol consumption. Was there any information collected about poly pharmacy? For a future study may also be worth breaking down the over 65s into age brackets. Probably worth referencing the below: Use of blood alcohol concentration in resuscitation room patients. Csipke E1, Touquet R, Patel T, Franklin J, Brown A, Holloway P, Batrick N, Crawford MJ.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comment. I thought the design was appropriate and any flaws were mentioned.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I would just suggesting revising the abstract part and perhaps reading the paper suggested to see if this could be added in somewhere. Cite this review as
Wisniacki F ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Comparison of injury pattern and clinical outcomes between young adults and elderly patients with alcohol-related injury in South Korea 2011–2016 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7704v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 16, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
