Review History for Urine proteome changes in rats subcutaneously inoculated with approximately ten tumor cells [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Urine proteome changes in rats subcutaneously inoculated with approximately ten tumor cells To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on May 20th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on June 14th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on August 2nd, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 21st, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mohammed Gagaoua
·
Aug 21, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The current version of the paper is accepted for publication in PeerJ. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Vladimir Uversky, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 2, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mohammed Gagaoua
·
Jun 14, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Dear authors, Please, I recommend to carefully revise the paper according to the comments of the referees. I recommend also to further clarify the manuscript and support it by other studies rather than those from your group. []
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
May 28, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Although the hypothesis for the present study is well defined in the Introduction section, authors fail in giving sufficient background. Are there previous reports (excluding those from the group) that have successfully employed urine to detect changes in the proteome of tumor-bearing rodents? In this context, previous studies of the group related to other pathological states do not provide any significant background for this section. The English style is ok. Raw data has been shared.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Authors have employed the rat-derived Walker-256 carcinosarcoma cell line. Remarkably, authors have injected a low number of cells (~10 cells) to interrogate whether it is sufficient to cause any changes in the urine protein content. Changes in the body weight as well as in the behavior were followed for 41 days (according to figure 2). However, there is no mention of tumor growth. Do the animals develop any detectable tumor mass upon injection of 10 cells? Results clearly demonstrate that inoculation of a low number of tumor cells is sufficient to alter the protein composition of tumor cell-inoculated rats at days 13 and 21 post-inoculum. The proteomic analysis performed here is fine. However, in order to attribute the proteomic changes to tumor development, it would be essential to repeat the assays employing non-viable tumor cells.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
As state above, the results presented in this study should be clearly correlated with the presence of viable, proliferating tumor cells. Remarkably, the discussion section largely fails in comparing the proteomic profiles herein found to previous studies that employed urine form tumor-bearing animal models or patients. Rather, the authors discussed the possible roles of proteins/pathways identified. Consequently, most of the cited articles are review studies.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Urine proteome changes in rats subcutaneously inoculated with approximately ten tumor cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7717v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jun 13, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Paper has tons of english language issues. When the english is ignored the idea of the paper mentioned is to analyze the effect of small amount of cancerous cells on the proteomic/biomarker profile of the urine and using this proteomic profile to detect cancer. Abstract: The abstract in not well written, the abstract background is not clear and needs to be rewritten. The abstract results has grammatical errors "were almost clustered together". Introduction: line 64-66: rephrase the sentence and grammar line 68: rephrase "therapeutic measures for patients are inevitable" line 72: please mention what makes up external influence factors line 77: rephrase and check grammar of "appearance of pathology changes" line 79-81: rephrase these two lines as they are not clear line 83: check grammar line 86: Please dont use questions, rephrase with passive voice Materials and Methods: line 121: rephrase "three volumes of ..." Results: line 190: rephrase and check grammar of "All identified urinary proteins were performed with unsupervised clustering analysis line 190: "almost clustered together" makes very little scientific sense, mention why these are close or similar with distances between centroids or something Discussion: line 236: incorrect usage: "stars" line 238: incorrect usage of "protein changed" line 239: use "respectively" line 240-276: needs complete rewrite, discussion feels rushed. Each paragraph is written as one complete sentence with numbers. I would suggest the authors to create separate paragraphs for each important result obtained and elaborate on each of these results. There are sufficient references, but how the results obtained here match or corroborate with previously reported studies needs connection. line 277: incorrect usage "be avoided" line 289: incorrect usage "helped do"
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The materials and methods are descriptive enough for replication and has sufficient references for various sources. The experiments are well planned and the inference of the obtained data is valid. The authors should elaborate on each findings of the differential proteomic biomarker identified in this paper. It is great that the results match the hypothesis, but a little more explanation on why these proteomic profile differ needs expanded on.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
I understand that the mice are expensive to carry out these experiments, but the number of mice that yielded these results are low and the authors have mentioned this limitation in line 278-279.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Please use a english language editor to check for grammar and spelling mistakes. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Urine proteome changes in rats subcutaneously inoculated with approximately ten tumor cells (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7717v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted May 20, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
