Review History for Your wish is my command! The influence of symbolic modelling on preschool children’s delay of gratification [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Your wish is my command! The influence of symbolic modelling on preschool children’s delay of gratification To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 23rd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 21st, 2015. The first revision was submitted on January 26th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on January 27th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Robert Deaner
·
Jan 27, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
This is an interesting, high-quality study. It should make a nice contribution to the literature.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jan 26, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Robert Deaner
·
Jan 21, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Dr. Kumst and Dr. Scarf, I have received reviews from two experts regarding your submission. Review #1 (DeLisi) reported no problems and recommended Acceptance. Review #2 (Anonymous) identified minor issues that should you should address. They recommended Minor Revision. I have also read the manuscript carefully. I found no major problems, but there are several minor issues should you should address. These are described below. Therefore, my decision is Minor Revision. If you decide to revise the work, be sure to submit a detailed list of changes or a rebuttal against each point raised by the reviewer or myself when you submit the revised manuscript. Thanks again for considering PeerJ as an outlet for your research. We hope you will continue to do so. Sincerely, Robert O. Deaner Line 177: Please provide evidence or at least some references indicating that this “maintenance paradigm” is a conventional, valid delay of gratification task. Line 198: Please indicate when parents completed the cognitive measures questionnaire. Ideally, this should have been completed prior to children doing the delay of gratification task, both pre-test and post-test. If this was the case, make this clear. If this wasn’t this case, make this clear AND acknowledge this potential weakness in your Discussion (probably around line 360). The potential problem, of course, is circularity: parents may base their responses on children’s performance in the task. Line 252: Please indicate what the error bars in Figure 1 indicate. Presumably they are standard errors, but this should be made clear. Line 256: Somewhere in the Discussion (probably around line 360), please acknowledge and briefly discuss the limitations of your conclusion with respect to the study’s limited statistical power. For example, once the children who initially reached the ceiling were eliminated, you only had 17 children in the control group. It should be acknowledged that having a larger sample would allow readers have more confidence in your negative conclusion. A power analysis may be worth conducting and discussing. Line 364: Please acknowledge and briefly discuss whether you obtained any data (or have some ideas) about whether children actually understood the key events in the story. This would seem like something that could have been assessed; if it wasn’t, it should be acknowledged as a potential weakness in the study.
label_author_1
Matt DeLisi ·
Jan 3, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The basic reporting is fine
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I have no methodological concerns
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The author does not overstate the findings and acknowledges limitations.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I like the study, and appreciate the use of 3 years olds that moves beyond the 4 year olds of Mischel's work. It is important to note the emergence of self-control and its intersections with externalizing behaviors. The author might be interest in Mischel's new book, The Marshmallow Test. It connects well with the current study. Cite this review as
DeLisi M ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Your wish is my command! The influence of symbolic modelling on preschool children’s delay of gratification (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.774v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 15, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript reports on a study aiming to assess whether symbolic modelling influences 3-year-old children ability to delay gratification. Eighty-three children were tested in a delay maintenance task both before and after a one-week treatment in which their parents were required to read them a book (i.e., the symbolic modelling manipulation). Children were randomly assigned to one of three conditions, differing for the content of the book: (i) personal story-telling, (ii) impersonal story-telling, and (iii) control. It emerged no significant effect of the condition, but an interesting correlation between children’s ability to delay gratification and their use of temporal terms, as assessed by a questionnaire filled out by the parents. This is a very well written paper and I have only minor comments: - l 44: “…(Moffit et al. 2011), substance abuse (Madden et al. 1997), lower self-esteem…” - l 45: please replace the semicolon after “Wulfert 2002” with a comma - l 47: “proposes” - l 62: “longer waiting times” - l 95: “…the behaviour of characters or the comments…” - l 125: “We hypothesized that the children…”
Experimental design
label_ed_2
- ll 236-240: please include N for the correlations - l 243: “Gender by Session interaction” (for consistency with ll 223-226)
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
- l 296: “…for children aged 3 years…”
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Your wish is my command! The influence of symbolic modelling on preschool children’s delay of gratification (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.774v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 23, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
