Review History for Plastome of mycoheterotrophic Burmannia itoana Mak. (Burmanniaceae) exhibits extensive degradation and distinct rearrangements [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Plastome of mycoheterotrophic Burmannia itoana Mak. (Burmanniaceae) exhibits extensive degradation and distinct rearrangements To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 27th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on May 13th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on July 11th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on August 27th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 29th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
Isabel Larridon
·
Aug 29, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for making the additional changes that were requested. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Gerard Lazo, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 27, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.2
Isabel Larridon
·
Aug 7, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thank you for revising the manuscript based on the comments sent by the reviewers. Please revise the manuscript based on the additional comments provided by the Section Editor (below). Comments by Section Editor: “In reviewing the manuscript the Genbank accession MK318822 did not appear available; it was seen as a non-published supplement. GO annotations are ideal for breaking down terms into molecular, cellular, and biological classifications; it would be useful to have such information included as a supplemental table with the gene list assigned to appropriate GO: terms to associate this data with the plastome. Or such terms might easily be attached to a Table or attached to the gene lists as seem in Figure 3. Journal manuscripts are often scanned by text-mining software that locates and extracts core data elements, like gene function. Adding standard ontology terms, such as the Gene Ontology (GO, geneontology.org) or others from the OBO foundry (obofoundry.org) can enhance the recognition of your contribution and description. This will also make human curation of literature easier and more accurate. None of this was visible.”
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Jul 11, 2019
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Isabel Larridon
·
May 13, 2019
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please revise the manuscript as suggested by the reviewers. Please have a fluent English speaker correct the text to avoid language issues in the resubmitted manuscript. []
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 29, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Please have a fluent English user examine the phrasing of the manuscript closely. The phrasing is could be misconstrued as speculative, e.g. "One nature of plastome is that its genes could be transferred or pruned." or "B. itoana plastome is not just downsizing..." or confusing "pseudogenized petG is retained" Please review for misspellings e.g. "nonbioenirgitic", Burmannia is misspelled as "Burmania" twice, once in the abstract, once in line 41. Line 50: Please either include all species representatives, or none. This is misleading. Abstract: Inversion 2 (with accD) is touted as a result of a heterotrophic shift, which would be a very interesting result. This is nearly completely dropped in the discussion section, outside of lines 193 - 195. Line 200: "Interestingly, the six rearrangements (Inv3/Inv4/Ins1/Ins2/Ins3/ins4) occur in IRs-SSC, IRs, IRs and IRs of B. itoana plastome, respectively" - I don't understand this sentence. Why are "IRs" repeated three times?
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Line 54: I am not clear whether the DNA extracted was from the same specimen(s?) as those vouchered. It would also be useful if a better description could be given of the field site. Line 61: please provide the sequences of these primers.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Line 80: Please specify your criteria for determining function vs. pseudogene
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Lines 146 - 156: The identity of tRNA genes retained is interesting, and should be expanded. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Plastome of mycoheterotrophic Burmannia itoana Mak. (Burmanniaceae) exhibits extensive degradation and distinct rearrangements (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7787v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
May 2, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This article meets all the basic standards of PeerJ.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experiment of this study was well designed and the methods used are valid, described with sufficient details.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The analyses of this study are sound, and the results are informative. The sequencing of a plastome of heterotrophs in Burmanniaceae and comparative genomic analyses will fill the gap of knowedge about plastome evolution in this family.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The paper is publishable in PeerJ and I only have some minor comments: 1) The title is a bit long. 2) In line 81-82, how did you indentify these genes as pseudogenes? Could you provide some evidence such as frame-shift, stop codon mutations? 3) I suggest authors to consider to add a piturece of B. itoana into the figure, showing the heterotrophic lifestyle of this plant. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Plastome of mycoheterotrophic Burmannia itoana Mak. (Burmanniaceae) exhibits extensive degradation and distinct rearrangements (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7787v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Maria Logacheva ·
May 12, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript is quite concise and straightforward and I had no problem following its main message. I should note however that it could be greatly improved by the proofreading by the native speaker. Also, there are multiple typos, including in the plant names (e.g. Burmania instead of Burmannia). Figures and tables are OK, with exception of Additional file 1 (see below).
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The topic is interesting, the research question is well-defined and the results are valuable for the scientific community. The methods are adequate and desribed in sufficient details. However, as soon as one of the main findings of the manuscript is the observation of rearrangments in B. itoana plastome I suggest to perform more thorough analysis of the rearrangements, including the search for the repeats that could have trigger the rearrangements (see e.g. Weng et al. - 10.1093/molbev/mst257 and other studies of Geraniaceae plastomes which are highly rearranged and repeat-rich).
Validity of the findings
The data are robust, genome assembly is reliable. However, the annotation provided in the Additional file 1 is questionable - it looks like an uncorrected draft, with some notes on the results of the blast search and strange ORFs such as gene complement(<319..>458) /gene="atpI" /note="blatX_hit atpI_Tacca_chantrieri_Copy.gb / position 619 - 728 / coverage 14.78% / match 11.16%" ORF complement(611..1291) /Genetic_code="Standard" /Reading_frame=3 which do not go to the final annotation (as far as I can see from the Fig. 1). As soon as you submitted the annotated genome to NCBI I would suggest you to replace Additional file 1 by the GenBank flatfile. Also, I have concerns about the introduction and discussion which are somewhat shallow. Several statements in the introduction and discussion are arguable. e.g. lanes 36-37: "ndh genes become dispensable once plants have the ability of obtaining nutrients using heterotrophic way" - ndh genes are lacking or pseudogenized in many autotrophic plants (e.g. Peredo et al. 2013 10.1371/journal.pone.0068591). Knockout experiments on model plants also showed that they are dispensable under certain environmental conditions (10.1093/emboj/17.4.868). lanes 198-200: "It was hypothesized that MORFFO (mobile open reading frames) elements are regularly associated with inversions and changes to the inverted repeats". First, the term MORFFO stands for "Mobile Open Reading Frames in Fern Organelles" and is thus by definition can be applied only to ferns. Second, and more important - MORFFO are unusual ORF, that do not have close similarity to typical plastid genes. As far as see from the results that you present (Fig. 1, in particular), there are no such elements in the B. itoana genome.
Cite this review as
Logacheva MD ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Plastome of mycoheterotrophic Burmannia itoana Mak. (Burmanniaceae) exhibits extensive degradation and distinct rearrangements (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7787v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 27, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
plant biology
