Review History for Correlation between subsets of tumor-infiltrating immune cells and risk stratification in patients with cervical cancer [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Correlation between subsets of tumor-infiltrating immune cells and risk stratification in patients with cervical cancer To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 14th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 6th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on August 30th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on August 31st, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Sarah Howie
·
Aug 31, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The authors have addressed all the points raised satisfactorily and the manuscript should now be published
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 30, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Sarah Howie
·
Aug 6, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Risk stratification of women with cervical cancer is an important area of research – According to WHO statistics, cervical cancer caused by HPV infection is the 4th biggest cause of death from cancer in women worldwide. Treatment success depends upon tumour type and host response to the tumour. This paper looks at the feasibility of using immunostaining of tumour infiltrating immune cells in conventional biopsies to aid risk stratification of cervical cancer in a study of Chinese women. The authors use standard techniques that would be widely available within hospital pathology laboratories which makes exploitation of the results feasible in clinical settings. There are several reports in a variety of tumours that different types of immune cells can be identified and have some prognostic value but this differs between tumour type. Here the authors have found that in cervical cancer the presence of activated or memory T cells (CD45RO+ve cells) and regulatory T cells (FOXP3+ve cells) could be useful in determining outcomes for patients and used as a guide in clinical management of cases. The reviewers are happy with the manuscript apart from some minor corrections. The paper is well and concisely written and the tests have been appropriately applied and analysed. The statistical analysis is appropriate for the data presented. Antibodies used are commercially available and are correctly annotated. The representative immunostaining micrographs presented are generally clear and easy to interpret. As reviewer 1 notes the number of tumours that were HPV+ve is lower than would be expected and the authors may have been reliant on data generated using a less sensitive HPV detection assay than conventional in the UK or USA – the authors need to provide information on this assay and discuss its relative sensitivity to other commercially available assays. Please address the comments raised by the reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 29, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This manuscript is very well-written. The main points are clearly stated. Sufficient background is provided with citation of appropriate literature. The manuscript is well structured and the figure and tables are presented professionally. The article is concise and self-contained with a hypothesis and relevant discussion.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The manuscript describes primary research on a small cohort of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded cervical cancer samples. The work relies on pathologists’ assessment of staining of tissues sections with various markers of infiltrating immune cells, and on interpretation related to a good range of clinical data. The research question is well defined and meets a gap in knowledge. However, data are related to “risk stratification” in cervical cancer patients but I could not find any definition of what the authors consider low, intermediate, or high risk. Is this metastasis, recurrence, death before 5 years, or something else? This should be stated in the manuscript. Generally, methods are well described but there is no description, or reference to, the methods/tests used to originally determine variables such as HPV status (see below) or physiological data such as renal and liver function.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The article is valid. The only negative for the study is that the cohort is small, but the authors acknowledge this, and the p-values are significant. The HPV typing data is striking. It is unusual to find 16% of cervical cancer patients are HPV-negative (expected value ~<5%). This is why it is important for the authors to state the method used to determine HPV status. The authors state that they see membrane staining for the majority of their immune markers in the IHC analysis (Figure 1). However, although they might expect to find membrane CD8, it looks to be cytoplasmic in the picture shown (Figure 1 E). It is very hard to be certain of the cellular position of staining with these markers at the magnification shown. It might be best to simply state that positive staining was observed.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Correlation between subsets of tumor-infiltrating immune cells and risk stratification in patients with cervical cancer (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7804v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 30, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The paper is well written and in plain clear English. It is easy to read and understand. References sufficient. Data is well organised. No typographical errors were detected and
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experimental design is well suited for the research question. methods described in sufficient detail. Two further clarifications in methods will improve the manuscript . 1. Lines 124-126 – Patients are classified based on their risk based on prognosis. It will be useful here to have a bit more detail on how the patients were classified. 2. HPV test was used- details of what test was used can be added.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
findings are clearly shown and look valid based on the data provided.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a simple and clear paper that shows the assessment of TILs cervical cancer tissue. I would like to recommend that the paper is accepted for publication. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Correlation between subsets of tumor-infiltrating immune cells and risk stratification in patients with cervical cancer (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7804v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 14, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
