Review History for Clinical implications of aberrant neurovascular structures coursing through the submandibular gland [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Clinical implications of aberrant neurovascular structures coursing through the submandibular gland To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 23rd, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 26th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on August 30th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 3rd, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Robert Druzinsky
·
Sep 3, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your timely re-submission and consideration of each of the comments by the two reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 30, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Robert Druzinsky
·
Aug 26, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviews liked your manuscript very much. Please address the minor issues raised by the reviewers to make it even better and re-submit it.
label_author_1
David Reed ·
Aug 19, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
While it is acknowledged in the head and neck clinical literature that the facial artery sometimes passes through the SMG, I was surprised to find that there were no percentages of this variant reported in the literature. This manuscript will be a valuable contribution to any clinical study interested in reporting anatomic variations in the submandibular triangle. I did find two papers that discuss variations in the submandibular triangle that are not cited in this manuscript. Please consider including these papers in their revision: Vadgaonkar, Rajanigandha, et al. "Variant facial artery in the submandibular region." Journal of Craniofacial Surgery 23.4 (2012): e355-e357. Venugopal, S. V., et al. "RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE FACIAL ARTERY AND SUB MANDIBULAR SALIVARY GLAND." Int J Anat Res 2.3 (2014): 597-600. The data are clear and unambiguous The manuscript is well written. There are a couple minor typos that the authors should consider fixing ln 35 "for numerous health conditions and procedures to be occur" Edit: Wording Ln 44 "for neoplastic origin, is Fine Needle Aspiration" Edit: comma
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comment
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors have done an excellent job with the discussion. It was thorough and highly relevant. This manuscript will be a great resource. Cite this review as
Reed D ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Clinical implications of aberrant neurovascular structures coursing through the submandibular gland (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7823v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 26, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The language of the manuscript was in clear and professional English. Proper background and context was provided and citations were appropriate. The figures and tables were very well done and offered clear detail. There were a few instances where the flow of the text wandered off course or was redundant (e.g., line 48, “Thus…”), but his was not really detrimental to the text.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The research question was well defined and meaningful. The relevance of the investigation is, to me, not of critical importance as surgical variations are well known and surgeons and anatomists have been working in this region for generations. The important aspect of this manuscript is the frequency data of each structure found within the substance of the submandibular gland. The research was conducted on body donors from a medical school anatomy lab (with documentation of IRB waiver), which introduced some limitations to the study, which was clearly addressed in the text.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
My only concern is the possibility of some bias due to the inclusion of donors with a minimum of one gland. If a donor with a damaged gland that may or may not have had a variation is compared with both grands from another donor, some bias might creep into the dataset and influence the overall results. Also, using a chi-square test that is robust to the effect of small sample size is likely appropriate. Other than those thoughts, the data were collected and documented well, appropriately defined, and support the overall conclusions of the manuscript.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Clinical implications of aberrant neurovascular structures coursing through the submandibular gland (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7823v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 23, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
