Review History for Identification of a five-miRNA signature predicting survival in cutaneous melanoma cancer patients [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Identification of a five-miRNA signature predicting survival in cutaneous melanoma cancer patients To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 20th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 31st, 2019. The first revision was submitted on August 30th, 2019 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 4th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Giuseppe Nocentini
·
Sep 4, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been improved and is acceptable for the publication in PeerJ [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Amanda Toland, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 3, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The revised version of the manuscript meet the standards of the journal, also the English language was improved.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors provided more details about the experimental design and workflow. They well addressed all the reviewers' comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The achieved results are satisfactory and of interest for the readers.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The authors well addressed all the reviewers' comment. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Identification of a five-miRNA signature predicting survival in cutaneous melanoma cancer patients (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7831v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 30, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Giuseppe Nocentini
·
Jul 31, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
The manuscript is aimed at demonstrating the usefulness of the evaluation of the expression levels of specific miRNAs as prognostic biomarkers for cutaneous melanoma. The manuscript is clear and well written. Despite the idea is interesting, the investigation performed is not fully satisfactory. The authors must revise the manuscript according to the reviewers' suggestions.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 26, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The English language needs some revisions performed by an English native speaker. (e.g. Page 6 line 96, substitute the word “programme” with “program”, the same for Figure Legend 3; Page 6 line 86 miRNAs is not uppercase; Page 5 line 70 substitute the sentence “Melanoma is produced by the malignant transformation...” as follows “Melanoma is the result of the malignant transformation...”). In the Introduction Section some information are lacking and some references are not appropriate for the contents of the manuscript (See General Comments). Figures and tables are of good quality and clearly describe the results achieved by the authors. Raw data is correctly provided.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The manuscript proposed by Tao L and co-workers fits well with the aim of the journal. The scientific question proposed by the authors is clearly expressed and is aimed at demonstrating the usefulness of the evaluation of the expression levels of specific miRNAs as prognostic biomarkers for cutaneous melanoma. The scientific idea is very current and attractive because of the lack of effective prognostic biomarkers for cutaneous melanoma. Despite the idea is quite innovative and original, the investigation performed is not fully satisfactory because the authors analyze only one GSE Datasets excluding other datasets potentially interesting (see General Comments). In addition, some information about the differential and statistical analyses performed are lacking. Therefore, the description of methods could be improved.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The results obtained by the authors will pave the way to new experimental and observational study performed on in vitro, in vivo and clinical models in order to validate the prognostic significance of the five selected miRNAs. The data obtained would have been more significant if the authors had taken into account more GSE datasets of miRNAs expression. Overall, the presentation of the data is clear and of interest for the researchers involved in this field of study. The statistical analyses performed seem appropriate but it can be improved. Finally, the conclusion appears clear and summarizes well the main findings of the study.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Below are reported some minor/major revisions that the authors have to address: 1) In the introduction section, the authors should describe the importance of bioinformatics prediction analyses for the identification of putative diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers and describe other bioinformatics study performed on GEO DataSets and TCGA regarding the involvement of miRNA in cancer development. The authors should also explain why their study is different compared to those performed by other authors. For this purpose see the methods used in other similar studies: - 10.18632/oncotarget.18222 - 10.1038/JID.2015.355 - 10.3892/ol.2015.4031 - 10.3390/cancers11050610 2) “Although the treatment of melanoma is constantly developing, the results are still unsatisfactory, and life-threatening if metastasis occurs, prompting clinicians to pursue new predictive markers and targeted therapeutic genes (Dyduch et al. 2017; Shain & Bastian 2016)” The references indicated for in the above sentences do not deal with this topic in detail. It is suggested to provide more appropriate references, for this purpose see: - 10.3389/fphar.2018.01300 - 10.3390/healthcare2010001 - 10.3892/ijo.2018.4287 3) In the subheading “Acquisition of microarray data source and DEMs” of the “Materials & Methods” section, authors have to specify why they do not use the GEO2R tools provided by GEO DataSets for the differential analysis. Furthermore, the authors should specify why they selected the GSE35579 dataset. Have they applied inclusion or exclusion criteria for datasets selection? Clarify why the authors do not analyze other melanoma miRNA expression datasets, such as GSE62370 (tissues), GSE34460 (tissues), GSE18509 (tissues), GSE100508 (exosomes), GSE88727 (lymph nodes), GSE61741 (RNA from blood) and GSE20994 (RNA from blood). At least GSE62370, GSE34460 and GSE18509 should be included because built with expression data derived from melanoma tissue samples as the GSE35579 dataset. 4) How the GEO DataSets and TCGA miRNA expression data were compared and normalized? 5) In the first paragraph of the subheading “DEM identification and construction of a five-miRNA signature”, the authors talk about 186 differentially expressed genes of which 80 up-regulated and 105 down-regulated. Did the authors mean 186 differentially expressed miRNAs? Please check this paragraph and correct the errors, if any. 6) It is not clear how the authors select the five miRNAs. Are these miRNAs the most up-regulated or down-regulated? Did the authors only refer to the survival data for the choice of miRNAs? 7) Lines 243-246 page 10, sentences repeated. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Identification of a five-miRNA signature predicting survival in cutaneous melanoma cancer patients (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7831v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 31, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The authors proposed to identify signature miRNAs to improve prognostic markers that can be useful therapeutic targets during the future therapy development. Their subject was clear without unambiguousity, and overall studies were performed well to answer their scientific questions. English language used throughout their manuscript was proper level to be published. Introduction provided enough background to understand what the authors aimed to in this project. Literatures were well referenced by using most relevant and up-to-date works. Figures were well-organized with relevance to their findings, and the figure legends were well written.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The authors used GEO database to identify DEMs from melanoma patients, and crossed them to TCGA database to correlate their contribution to prognosis. Enough statistical consideration was made to rule out any unreasonable observations.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The authors identified five DEMs that were most up or down-regulated in the database, and showed the clinical relationship by comparing the expression levels to survival rates in melanoma patients. Based on their findings, it seems those five DEMs can serve as prognostic markers in clinical application. Although they did not perform wet laboratory studies to validate the functional role of the five DEMs, the authors justified well their findings by critically discuss their findings to a great volume of references in the discussion. Therefore, their findings can be described as a groundwork for future studies where the five DEMs should be further studied or considered as signature miRNAs in melanoma development and progression.
Comments for the author
The authors has redefined the signature miRNAs in melanoma patients by re-analyzing two databases GEO and TCGA with enough statistical consideration. Overall research was performed well with clear description about their methodologies and findings with enough figures. Although they did not perform wet laboratory studies to validate the functional role of the five DEMs, the authors justified well their findings by critically discuss their findings to a great volume of references in the discussion. Therefore, their findings can be described as a groundwork for future studies where the five DEMs should be further studied or considered as signature miRNAs in melanoma development and progression. The manuscript will need only minor work on the formatting. For examples, many places of period or comma has space gaps after the last letter in the sentence. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Identification of a five-miRNA signature predicting survival in cutaneous melanoma cancer patients (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7831v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 20, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
