Review History for Downregulated miR-383-5p contributes to the proliferation and migration of gastric cancer cells and is associated with poor prognosis [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Downregulated miR-383-5p contributes to the proliferation and migration of gastric cancer cells and is associated with poor prognosis To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on June 8th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on July 12th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on August 15th, 2019 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 12th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Obul Bandapalli
·
Sep 12, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Based on the external review and internal evaluation it was felt that the manuscript quality has been improved and all the points raised by the reviewers were addressed. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Amanda Toland, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Sep 5, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No further comment.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors have addressed all comments raised.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comment.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript has been significantly improved, and the authors have addressed all comments raised. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Downregulated miR-383-5p contributes to the proliferation and migration of gastric cancer cells and is associated with poor prognosis (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7882v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Aug 15, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Obul Bandapalli
·
Jul 12, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
In addition to addressing all the points raised by both the reviewers, Please make sure that the comments made on the target genes are only based on predictions and not functionally validated. Either you can validate some of the target genes and claim the statements or tone down your conclusions that these were the predicted target genes that need replication and functional validation in experimental setting.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 2, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is an interesting article describing the potential association between downregulation of miR-383-5p with the proliferation, migration, prognosis and clinicopathological features of gastric cancer. In terms of English language used, there seems to be much room for improvement despite being submitted for language editing services. Some mistakes are listed below: - Line 23: grammar error 'were' - Line 50: grammar error 'mortality worldwide' - Line 52: grammar error ' GC have increased over the years, which seriously' - Line 55: grammar error ' with multiple factors' - Line 79: spelling error 'clinical' - Line 88: grammar error 'were' - Line 95: grammar error 'in humidified'
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experiments used are valid in supporting the hypothesis. However, there are several comments that requires attention: - There seems to be inconsistency between the cell line nomenclature for MGC-803 versus SGC-803. - For wound healing assay, was a cell cycle antogonist used such as mitomycin c prior to image analysis? If so, please indicate in the methodology.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
- Line 145-146: It is unclear what 'After literature retrieval' means. Please elaborate. - What is the basis of choosing 5cm as the cut off between large vs small tumour sizes? It would be beneficial to include the standards or guidelines used in terms of such classification as variations in this measurement value can greatly influence the association and conclusions made. - Fig 1: Why is the blue imaginary line not situated at the FC 2.0 value on the x-axis? - Table 2: Downregulated microRNAs with FC < 2.0 are included in the Table, but Line 142 of the results mentions that FC 2.0 and p<0.05 were used as the cut-off criterion. Maintaining this cut-off for miRNA Seq data will ultimately remove miR-383-5p from the list. - Table 2 header is wrongly labelled as Table 1. - Table 3: P-value needs to be specified e.g. is it a comparison between low vs high groups? Based on the table, it is unclear. - Table 3: It would be beneficial if correlation regression values be included into the table to emphasize the strength of the associations.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Other comments are as stated below: - It is recommended that the term 'novel' be excluded from the manuscript as this miR-383-5p has been reported several times in past literature. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Downregulated miR-383-5p contributes to the proliferation and migration of gastric cancer cells and is associated with poor prognosis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7882v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 10, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
The manuscript is well written and easily understood. There are minor spelling errors that requires correction. (Line 79 : cliniacl – clinical; Line 100 : confrmed – confirmed; Line 102 : appvoed – approved; Line 109 : summaried – summarized; Line 187 : Firebrose – Firebrowser) Figures are well labeled and clear. Figure 4B needs improvement. The caption is “miR-383-5p mimics inhibited GC cells proliferation,” while the y-axis in the chart uses the word absorbance. It would be better to change it to viability to make it clearer what the chart is referring to.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The first part of this study focuses on bioinformatic analysis on miR-383-5p expression in gastric cancer, identifying it as a downregulated miRNA in gastric cancer tissues and cell lines. The second part of the study is a functional analysis of miR-383-5p in gastric cancer through overexpression study using miRNA mimics and control in gastric cancer cell lines, followed by bioinformatic analysis on predicted target gene. Methodology 1. Reference number/information for approval should be included in the manuscript for patient tissue collections and experiments. 2. It is unclear what is the source of the 382 GC TCGA samples (Line 85), as based on the analysis for Figure 2A, there were only 235 GC samples with available value for miR-383-5p expression. Further clarification is needed on the sample sizes and selection criteria. Figure 2C 1. The analysis for Figure 2C is very unclear and needs to be redone. Firstly, the caption for Figure 2C is “qRT-PCR showed that miR-383-5p was significantly down-regulated in GC … tissues.” Since the 54 GC tissue samples are normalized to normal tissues, why is the normalized expression of miR-383-5p divided by half to denote low (n=27) and high (n=27) expression, when instead, the expression that is higher than normal tissue should be considered as high expression and lower as low expression. 2. Next, how was the significant difference calculated? Was the expression of miR-383-5p in GC tissue statistically compared to normal tissue for the paired t-test? In that case, it is more appropriate and accurate to have a chart comparing the expression between GC and normal tissue. The current chart appears to list the 54 GC tissue samples from low to high expression of miR-383-5p, divide the samples into two groups (low and high expression) and compare them both, which is wrong. Table 3 It is not clear in the methodology what factors were compared to each other to calculate significant difference. Also, the total number of samples for the variable “Differentiation Grade” does not tally to 54, unlike all the other variables.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
1. Although miR-383-5p overexpression study in GC cell lines is novel, its dysregulated expression in GC has been previously shown by Azarbarzin et al (Biochemical Genetics, 2017, v55(3), pp 244–252). In their study, Azarbarzin and colleagues identified miR-383-5p to be significantly downregulated in gastric cancer tissues without correlation to clinical characteristics. This highly relevant information was not discussed or addressed in this manuscript. 2. Since the overexpression of miR-383-5p inhibits migration and proliferation, and the predicted target proteins are associated with survival, authors should also look at the effects of the miRNA on apoptosis using appropriate assays instead of just observing viability. Apoptotic assays such as PARP assay or Caspase-3/7 detection assay need to be carried out to confirm the tumor suppressive effects of miR-383-5p. Knockdown of miR-383-5p is also required to support the findings of the overexpression assays. 3. Without target protein validation, it is not useful to discuss the implication of miR-383-5p relationship with the predicted signaling pathways. This is because as this point, the relationship is purely hypothetical and inconclusive. Ideally, luciferase assay and target protein RT-qPCR/western blot should be done to establish the target protein. An example can be seen in one of the papers cited in this manuscript (Zhao et al. 2017). Therefore, target validation is important before the findings of this manuscript can be published. 4. The conclusion in the abstract states “its target genes were involved in important signaling pathway.” As the target genes were only predicted and not confirmed by validation, it would be incorrect to conclude as such. This should be written as “its predicted target genes…” instead unless validation is carried out. Furthermore, this is different compared to the conclusion at the end of the manuscript, which does not make any reference to the target genes.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Downregulated miR-383-5p contributes to the proliferation and migration of gastric cancer cells and is associated with poor prognosis (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7882v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jun 8, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
