Review History for Oomycete metabarcoding reveals the presence of Lagenidium spp. in phytotelmata [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Oomycete metabarcoding reveals the presence of Lagenidium spp. in phytotelmata To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 2nd, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 3 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 6th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on September 11th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 16th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Maria del Carmen Portillo
·
Sep 16, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Most of the comments of the reviewers have been addressed correctly. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Dezene Huber, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 11, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Maria del Carmen Portillo
·
Aug 6, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Three independent reviewers have finished their evaluation of your article and all of them have suggested minor changes.. Please, adress the changes suggested by the three reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 26, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The sequencing data certainly provides compelling evidence that Lagenidium spp are present in phytotelma, using two molecular methods to verify each other, and construction phylogenetic tree to complement sequencing. However, why was no attempt made to also culture any of the Lagenidium spp after sequences had been identified. Is it difficult to culture?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Could more information be provided on the relative abundance of all oomycete genera, not just Lagenidum (e.g. line 359). The read percent for Lagenidium was actually quite low for particularly P2 and P4. May be of interest to include read percent of the other oomycete genera - was the bulk of all the rest of the reads Pythium spp, and at what percent? Line 464 - 467: Complementary approaches such as the ones presented.... Unclear what this means. This sentence implies that the role of oomycetes in phytotelma environment was evaluated using metabarcoding, but it was not. Next sentence goes on to state this. Suggest deleting or revising this sentence to indicate that environmental role was not ascertained in your study. Line 476 - 479: It is not clear how this data is related to Fig 4, and also appears to be presenting new information in this discussion that wasn't previously shown in the results, i.e. differences in read percent of giganteum vs humanum in Sanger vs PacBio sequencing. Suggest including this information in the results first, rather than the discussion, and showing how the percentages were obtained. Line 494 - 507: Although an interesting evolutionary discussion point, this section is not related to the original research question or to supporting results. Suggest shortening this section, or deleting it entirely. Sequences have been deposited into GenBank, but at the time of this review, they are not yet available publically when searching the database.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Well written, easy to follow manuscript that describes previously unknown ecology of Lagenidium spp. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Oomycete metabarcoding reveals the presence of Lagenidium spp. in phytotelmata (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7903v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jul 31, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript presents research on oomycete communities in particular Lagenidium spp. in phytotelmata. The study provides new insights on the presence of Lagenidium species and their relations with other Lagenidium species studies earlier and is worthy of publication. The paper is well written and I enjoyed reading it.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The MS combines Sanger and amplicon sequencing technique targeting cox1 DNA barcodes. The materials and methods are appropriate, the data analysis and presentation are adequate, and relevant discussion.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The paper is a step forward in understanding oomycetes communities in plant microenvironment with focus on Lagenidium, its possible ecological significance, and overall covers an important contribution to the literature.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
However, there are few concerns need to be addressed before publication. First one, the transcriptomics and genomic information related to Lagenidium and links to the pathogenicity evolution highlight the importance of this study, however, is over-used throughout the manuscript diverting the focus of the MS. The results shown in MS are solely based on DNA barcode and detection via sanger or amplicon sequencing. I suggest reducing the information on genomics, transcriptomics and pathogenicity pathways throughout the MS, especially in the discussion section (Fx line 487-510). Second, the methods section mentions about nested PCR, which needs clarification. Please explain two sets of primers, overlapping region, amplicon size, thermal cycle, and the main purpose behind it. Also, giving a name to the newly designed primer will help readers. Another aspect is in the result section is that it is too descriptive. I suggest that you improve this section by reducing it, for instance, part of it describes methods, consider them to move in the materials and methods section. For example, line 279-results title says ‘Environmental detection of Lagenium spp’ but the actual result section starts from line 300. Similarly, PacBio sequencing (line 322), this section is difficult to follow with lots of details which could be easily removed or move to a table (fx line 323-329). Some specific comments Consider adding a line describing Phytotelmata in the introduction. Line 296-967, presence of band doesn’t mean that it is always oomycetes based on your amplicon results (sample P2) Line 168 consider adding ‘(NSU)’ after university Line 365 remove the dot after sample Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Oomycete metabarcoding reveals the presence of Lagenidium spp. in phytotelmata (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7903v0.1/reviews/2
label_author_3
Reviewer 3 ·
Aug 5, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_3
Use of English: I don't consider myself qualified to do a thorough check, but I haven't detected any serious issues. The background provided is enough and the literature is relevant but quite out of date, presenting only 7 references among 51 published in the last 3 years. There are more up-to-date works published based on metabarcoding approaches for oomycete identification, as the followings: Sapkota, R. & Nicolaisen, M. Cropping history shapes fungal, oomycete and nematode communities in arable soils and affects cavity spot in carrot. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 257, 120–131 (2018). Abdelfattah, A., Malacrinò, A., Wisniewski, M., Cacciola, S. O. & Schena, L. Metabarcoding: A powerful tool to investigate microbial communities and shape future plant protection strategies. Biol. Control 120, 1–10 (2018). Ruiz Gómez, F.J., Navarro-Cerrillo, R.M., Pérez-de-Luque, A., Oßwald, W., Vannini, A., Morales-Rodríguez, C. Assessment of functional and structural changes of soil fungal and oomycete communities in holm oak declined dehesas through metabarcoding analysis. Sci. Rep. 9, 5315 (2019) Raw data (FASTA files and abundance matrices) are not supplied.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
The research is original but the experimental design does not provide enough evidence to support some of the considerations the authors stated in the discussion. The research question is quite methodological and the number of samples and the chosen controls are not enough to provide evidence of the association of >Lageindium spp. and the plants, nor even the phytotelmata. Authors analyze water DNA, and they declare there is a significant amount of invertebrate and biological debris in the water. The results do not support the statement that Lagenidium spp is able to colonize phytotelmata, nor the plant tissues. Also, there is another issue along with the text. Authors confounded barcode with the amplified sequence on several occasions. A barcode in NGS is the short specific sequence added to a primer in order to allow multiplexing and ulterior demultiplexing of DNA libraries.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
The work is whort to be published, but some conclusions stated are not supported by the results and in my opinion, the discussion should be modified. The analysis of the abundance matrix is not carried out, nor the biodiversity indices calculus for the oomycete community. Statistical results for the phylogenetic analysis are not provided.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #3 of "Oomycete metabarcoding reveals the presence of Lagenidium spp. in phytotelmata (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7903v0.1/reviews/3 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 2, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
