Review History for Effects of the loss of estrogen on the heart’s hypertrophic response to chronic left ventricle volume overload in rats [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effects of the loss of estrogen on the heart’s hypertrophic response to chronic left ventricle volume overload in rats To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on July 9th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 1st, 2019. The first revision was submitted on September 4th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. A further revision was submitted on September 18th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 20th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.3 (accepted)
David Kennedy
·
Sep 20, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for the opportunity to review this interesting work. [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Pedro Silva, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.3 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 18, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.2
David Kennedy
·
Sep 12, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please include your response to Reviewer 1's query on E2 supplementation (i.e. E2 levels not available and use of uterine weight as a surrogate of estrogen action) in the Discussion/limitations section.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 4, 2019
label_version_3
Version 0.1 (original submission)
David Kennedy
·
Aug 1, 2019
label_recommendation_3
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Your paper was reviewed by 2 independent experts in this field and there are several revisions which will be needed. The Reviewers have raised several issues related to the Basic Reporting, Experimental Design and Validity of the findings which should be thoroughly addressed in any subsequent revisions including clearly acknowledging and delineating any additional Limitations. Please also address each of the enumerated “Comments to authors” in your revision.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jul 29, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
English definitely needs to be revised. Typos, spelling mistakes, missing spacing and non-meaningful sentences should be corrected May abbreviations are using before being spelled out and explained
Experimental design
label_ed_1
OVX and AR surgical procedures are not detailed in the methods sections. These details should be added. Since multiple surgical procedures were performed in the current study, each time "sham operation " is mentioned, this needs to be clarifies: sham relative to which surgery Were placebo pellets administered in control groups for E2-supplemented animals? What is E2 levels in E2 supplemented animals and their control? These measurements should be included Rationale for looking at genes expression of specific genes is not clear? Explain why "Cyclophilin A" was used as a housekeeping gene? and not more commonly used ones?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In figure 1: It is not clear what stars are referring to in these 6 panels. The legend states that this is relative to sham groups, but sham group individual results are not displayed in the figure! It is fundamental to include this data set as a third group for each panel. Although the average would be one, still showing individual data will show variability. It is not clear what is each p value included above panels refer to? and statistical test? The type of statistical comparison tests used in figure 1 should be included in the legend The authors relate their OVX effects as an effect ovarian hormonal depletion, which may not be true. OVX is associated with other hormonal differences so authors should be more accurate in describing their findings especially given that E2 supplementation did not restore all OVX-induced changes
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Group codes are not explained in the abstract so it is hard to understand and follow the abstract Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effects of the loss of estrogen on the heart’s hypertrophic response to chronic left ventricle volume overload in rats (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7924v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 1, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The study and data are well presented. Limitations are addressed by the authors. Overall well written with sufficient literature review. I have recommended that they include the effects of EST on cardiac remodeling in males as well, as those studies have been performed by others.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
There are several limitations in the design, but the authors have addressed them in the discussion. Details of the ultrasound conditions should be included. I have included these in my comments below.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The authors do not overstate their conclusions and give a good discussion as to why their results in the AR model differ from published studies utilizing the ACF VO model.
Comments for the author
Couet and colleagues present a study showing the effects of ovariectomy (OVX) and estrogen (EST) replacement on the cardiac function and remodeling response of wistar rats to chronic aortic regurgitation (AR). The study and data are well presented. Limitations are addressed by the authors. They show that OVX reduced the hypertrophic response to AR resulting but did not lead to further dysfunction when compared to intact rats. Estrogen replacement restored the hypertrophic response. Measures of ECM, metabolism, and fetal reprogramming were normalized by EST treatment. Comments: Define CH in abstract. Differences in AR severity between the EST treated study and the OVX study make it difficult to compare, but the authors acknowledge this as a limitation. Has anyone noted a difference in remodeling response between Wistar and Sprague Dawley rats in response to AR of ACF VO? For Echo method, include a brief description of the anesthetic/sedation and ultrasound equip used. Table 2: Have others shown a decrease in BW in response to OVX in female wistar? Were the animals pair fed? Table 3: what EF do the Sham group have? The FS is very high. Also, the strongest effect on CO is due to OVX and not AR. Do the authors have a theory as to why? I do not believe that change occurs in Sprague Dawley females. Fig 1 &2: recommend including x-axis bar labels in the top row as well. Discussion page 8: define Ocx. Est has been shown to reduce VO remodeling in male animals. Authors should include that information. Fig 4 &5: recommend using hashed bar for OVX (Fig 4) and E2 (Fig 5) groups to aid in gray scale reproduction. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effects of the loss of estrogen on the heart’s hypertrophic response to chronic left ventricle volume overload in rats (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7924v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jul 9, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
