Review History for Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction development for rapid detection of Tomato brown rugose fruit virus and comparison with other techniques [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Peer-reviewed Journals PeerJ (Life, Biological, Environmental and Health Sciences) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction development for rapid detection of Tomato brown rugose fruit virus and comparison with other techniques To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on August 8th, 2019 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on August 29th, 2019. The first revision was submitted on September 19th, 2019 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on September 20th, 2019.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Daniel Lahr
·
Sep 20, 2019
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing and implementing all reviewers comments. The writing as well has been much improved after correction by an English expert. Congratulations on the very nice article! [# PeerJ Staff Note - this decision was reviewed and approved by Pedro Silva, a PeerJ Section Editor covering this Section #]
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Sep 19, 2019
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Daniel Lahr
·
Aug 29, 2019
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear colleagues, According to two reviewers, the manuscript is of broad interest, and has been performed and written adequately. In my view: 1. As reviewer #2 pointed out, the written English needs a little more work. Some sentences are indeed a bit awkward, but it is not a massive issue. Please request a native speaking colleague to do a quick proof reading and fix the few strange sentences. 2. Both reviewers, but especially reviewer #2, point out that more detail needs to be given in reporting results. Please address each of these recommendations specifically, adding the data/tables that were requested.
label_author_1
Raed Alkowni ·
Aug 27, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript was written in good English; but it can be improved. The literature references were good enough to the topic The manuscript was structured well and the authors expressed themselves in.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The experiments were carried ad hoc and the methods were sufficient
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are novel and useful. More needed to explain how these can be used as a routine tests. The recommendations need to be improved based on that
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript is original and informative. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Alkowni R ( 2019 ) Peer Review #1 of "Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction development for rapid detection of Tomato brown rugose fruit virus and comparison with other techniques (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7928v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Aug 28, 2019
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article develops new qRT-PCR primers and probe to determine the presence of a tomato virus that recently affected the south of Italy. Because of the importance of this crop in this region I think that the possibility to detect this disease in a easier way is crucial. In my point of view, the most relevant and original section of this work is the fact that the author explored the possibility of manipulate in a lesser extend the samples. So, they offer an easy, cheap and sensitive way to detect the virus. I consider very important to correct some aspects of this work previous of publishing. In general the English writing must be check out in all the manuscript, I suggest to contact some expert in English writing. Some examples of sentences that according with my point of view need to be corrected: In Bacground: In Sicily, the <U+FB01>rst outbreak occurred in 2018 in di<U+FB00>erent Sicilian provinces represents a serious threat for tomato crops. Line 54: In Italy the tomato production is more located in Sicily, where is one of the most economically horticultural crops, with the yield of approximately 40% of the total Italian production in greenhouses (Agri ISTAT, 2017). Line 67: instead of makes should say make. Line 70: instead of subsequently should say subsequent. Line 342: it should say sample, not samples. Line 357: should say the most important tomato production, not productions Check this sentence: So, with regard to this pathogen, to date the only two tools available are: I think that the world cultivation is used in a wrong way in many sentences, please review this in all the text.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Some issues that on my point of view need to be address to improve the work: In results, section Mechanical transmission, the authors said that they could infect with the virus tomato and pepper plants, but not eggplant. And they detected the virus by PCR. There is no reference to a Table or Figure where the results are shown. For example: percentage of the total infected plants with symptoms, positive or negative PCR result. I suggest perform a graph showing these results. In results, section Primer, Taqman® MGB probe design and protocol optimization, the author claim that their designed 5 pairs of primers for qRT-PCR and showed the one with the highest sensibility in Table 2. What means highest sensibility? Lower Cq values? Earlier virus detection? Better primer efficiency. I think that if the section is named protocol optimization they should show all the primers sequences with their corresponding primer efficiency and R2 values. Also, they should show the parameter that they measured that helped them to decide for the best one. Also, I think that it is very important when a person optimize a qRT-PCR show the melting curves in a supplementary figure. Supplementary Table 1 needs more information. It is not clear what means % or at what correspond the Ac. numbers, I mean if they are all of the analyzed. It is not an intuitive table and there is no extra information in Results. In section Different method for sample preparation and comparison of different techniques for ToBRFV detection: I think this is the most interesting result of the paper, the comparison between different isolation techniques and virus determination in my opinion is the most applicable part of this paper. But, my concern is about the final conclusion. The author said that the qRT-PCR method is the most sensitive because can detect the virus even with crude tissue extracts. However, most of the Cqs obtained using this extracts as template are higher than 30. These high Cq in most of the cases are considered as noise. I think that it is necessary show that these are real viral amplifications showing for example qRT-PCR negative controls. Material and Methods: Line 117: Why do you use 1 mM of primer F and 1 uM primer reverse? Is this a mistake? There is an excel file (supplementary information) that is not mentioned in the paper at all.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
As I mentioned before, I think that the author have developed a novel way of virus examination for tomato samples. Compared with the usually used techniques in the field seems to be a cheaper and easy way to do it. That's the novelty of the paper. However and as I mention in the previous sections of this revision, I think that several issues need to be check out before to publish this work
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I suggest a deeper revision of the English writing. Some sentences are not clear and not easy to follow. Please, check out the tables, some of them need more details for a better interpretation of the results. Please, add the information suggested before. Some results affirmations are not supported with data. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2019 ) Peer Review #2 of "Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction development for rapid detection of Tomato brown rugose fruit virus and comparison with other techniques (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.7928v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Aug 8, 2019 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Chemistry Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ – Life and Environment | PeerJ Computer Science
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
