Review History for Wild plant species growing closely connected in a subalpine meadow host distinct root-associated bacterial communities [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Wild plant species growing closely connected in a subalpine meadow host distinct root-associated bacterial communities To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 20th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 23rd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on December 31st, 2014 and was reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 6th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Hauke Smidt
·
Feb 6, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
You did an excellent job in improving your manuscript making use of the suggestions of the reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 29, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
ok
Experimental design
label_ed_1
ok
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
ok
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
ok Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Wild plant species growing closely connected in a subalpine meadow host distinct root-associated bacterial communities (v0.2)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.804v0.2/reviews/1 Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Dec 31, 2014
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Hauke Smidt
·
Nov 23, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As you can see from the individual reports, both reviewers agreed on the relevance and quality of your study. Nevertheless, there are also some shortcomings that I would like you to address in a revised version, including the issues related to experimental design (number of samples, investigation of a single site, lack of soil physico-chemical data), as well as a number of suggestions for further improvement in style.
label_author_2
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 10, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is a well written manuscript, which fits to all points.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
see point 2.(genral comments)
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
see point 2. (general comments)
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The question if the soil microbiota or the plant species is the main driver of plant-associated microbial diversity is a long and conversely discussed question. Most of the published studies showed a clear effect of the plant species/cultivar but extend depends also on the phylogenetic position of the species. For example, medicinal plants show a stronger specificity than monocotyledonous plants (Köberl et al., Frontiers 2014). The authors analyze the microbial diversity of three wild plants from subalpine meadows, which is indeed less investigated than model plants and crops, and found distinct bacterial communities but with a different homogeneiity. Altogether this is a well-performed study but I have some comments to improve the quality. 1. The title is very poor, especially if you think on a beautiful subalpine meadow. Altogether more input from plant science would be of value; e.g., about the ecology of this vegetation community, plant species and physiology. 2. My main concern is that only one site was investigated. Are all these conclusions really statistically significant? 3. A novel aspect was the high extend of individual variation, which should be more discussed and mentioned in the abstract. Interestingly, I remember old studies which also showed these individual effects (based on cultivation) and came to the conclusion that is needs an appropriate statistical design and a lot of replicates. 4. There are interesting studies about mosses in natural bog ecosystems, which could be cited and discussed (Bragina, Sphagnum mosses). Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Wild plant species growing closely connected in a subalpine meadow host distinct root-associated bacterial communities (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.804v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_3
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 17, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_3
This manuscript brings good insights on how plant species can host different microbial communities using 454 pyrosequencing technology. Data shown by the authors indicate that plants of different species host distinct bacterial communities in their roots.
Experimental design
label_ed_3
There is a weakness in this study, as the authors did not include soil analyses (e.g.soil chemical/physical data) which could contribute to explain partially the findings of microbial biodiversity the rhizosphere of the three different plant hosts. The root environment should be taken into account, instead of only considering the host-microbes interaction. If these data can be added and discussed, this work will substantiate the findings in view of the comparisons made by the authors. Also, it is unclear how many samples per plant species were used for the pyrosequencing and why they used 20, 10 and 10 for P. aurantiaca, T. hybridum and L. vulgare, respectively? Also, Figure 1 indicates that samples losses must have occurred for P. aurantica (1) and L. vulgare (2). Please, explain.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_3
I have two main comments. First, the proposed hypothesis, specifically when based on the result of a single study and lack of mechanistic explanations. Second, there is only a single index of phylogenetic diversity. It seems that the authors should calculate multiple indices of biodiversity and see if they perform similarly, as 10 or 20 different samples were taken separately within the study area. The Summary is quite poor and should contain more details of the methods used.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Wild plant species growing closely connected in a subalpine meadow host distinct root-associated bacterial communities (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.804v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 20, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
ecology
