Review History for Characterization of four new monoclonal antibodies against the distal N-terminal region of PrPc [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Characterization of four new monoclonal antibodies against the distal N-terminal region of PrP c To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 14th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 22nd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on February 11th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 11th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Rita Grandori
·
Feb 11, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript is accepted for publication
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 11, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Rita Grandori
·
Jan 22, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please revise your manuscript according to the suggestions expressed by Reviewer 2 and adding detailed information on the availability of the hybridomas
label_author_1
Emiliano Biasini ·
Jan 7, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The authors describe the generation and characterization of four novel anti-PrP antibodies, directed against the N-terminal, unstructured region of the protein. Interestingly, these antibodies show anti-prion activity in cell-based assays. The manuscript is well written, the results presented clearly, and the main findings discussed adequately. This reviewer found no issues with the study. Perhaps the only minor point could be a more accurate and extensive citation of the literature. The study seems to adhere to the journal's policy.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The study describes original research. The experiments are well designed and appear solid. The research seems to have been carry out in conformity to relevant ethical standards.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The results are clear and largely consistent with previous literature. The conclusions derived from the data are appropriate or reasonable.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Well-designed study reporting novel and interesting findings about four novel anti-PrP antibodies. The biochemical characterization of the antibodies is extensive, as well as the definition of their biological properties. Cite this review as
Biasini E ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Characterization of four new monoclonal antibodies against the distal N-terminal region of PrPc (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.811v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 20, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The submitted article appears to conform to journal standards.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This paper describes the isolation and characterization of four novel antibodies with specificity for the prion protein. The techniques used to isolate the antibodies are well-established and appropriate and the characterization is thorough.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings appear valid and are for the most part clearly explained.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
A significant focus of the current manuscript deals with the identification of the new antibodies' epitopes. Recent publications by the Telling group (JBC 2013) and Colby group (JMB 2014) describe advanced methods for epitope determination and the conformational basis thereof. These earlier works should be discussed in the context of the current manuscript, especially with regards to the discussion of whether discontinuous or linear epitopes are present in the antibodies described here. Although it is generally accepted scientific practice to make propagateable reagents described in research articles available to the scientific community, the prion disease research community has a poor track record in this regard. It would be refreshing to see the hybridomas deposited with an antibody cell bank, such as that at the University of Iowa. The legend to figures 1 and 2 could be made more clear by adding a description of the peptides used for epitope mapping. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Characterization of four new monoclonal antibodies against the distal N-terminal region of PrPc (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.811v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 14, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
