Review History for Effects of anesthetics pentobarbital sodium and chloral hydrate on urine proteome [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effects of anesthetics pentobarbital sodium and chloral hydrate on urine proteome To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 11th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 6th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on February 10th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 13th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Bruno Lomonte
·
Feb 13, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Clarification on the inclusion of two additional authors is satisfactory. Amendments to the original submission are acceptable, and improve the clarity of this communication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 10, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Bruno Lomonte
·
Feb 6, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Zhao and Gao report in this manuscript the influence of two common anesthetics (pentobarbital sodium and chloral) on the urine proteome using a rat model. The study aims to provide a basis for the selection of useful biomarkers in human disease. The findings also help to exclude anesthetic-related effects in future biomarker discovery studies based on urinary proteins. The study design is clear and the label-free LC-MS/MS methods adequate and representative, supporting the main findings and conclusions. A possible link between nervous system physiology and renal effects is suggested by the findings in rats, although the possibility of direct effects of anesthetics on renal physiology cannot be excluded. The authors clearly ackowledge this. Overall the manuscript is well written and presented (although few suggestions/observations are given below). It adds valuable new knowledge, and should be of interest in the field. Therefore, a revised version addressing the points raised by reviewers (especially point#2 of the reviewer on the protein/creatinine ratios - validity of findings) could be acceptable for publication in PeerJ. Minor points to be considered to improve presentation are: 1.Line 24: avoid repeating "animal model" in the sentence. 2.Line 31: this sentence needs to be improved for clarity. 3.Line 33: "purposed...", do you mean "proposed"? 4.Line 51: "was collected during anesthesia....". The description should be more specific regarding times. 5.Line 74: spell out "collision-induced dissociation" for CID 6.Line 86: spell out "false discovery rate" for FDR 7.Line 98: the description of the antibodies used for western blot experiments needs to be improved, please indicate the animal species origin for the primary antibodies, and the specificity of the secondary, conjugated antibodies. 8.Statistics: throughout the manuscript, no indication of the type of test used to establish statistical significance of differences is provided. Please clarify. 9.Line 113: "were individually identified by...", a more adequate term could be "profiled by...". 10.Line 171: anesthetics 11.Line 178: "or indirect effects..." would be more clear to change to "....or indirect effects on renal functions" 12.Line 184: antagonizes 13.Line 184: "the less release" could be changed to "the lower release" 14.Table 1. The exact meaning of the symbol "____" should be indicated in a footnote. 15.Figs 1 and 2: indicate statistical test used.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 23, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The reviewed paper presents the study on the influence of two anesthetics on the urinary proteom of examined rats. The main goal of the study was to reveal potential confounders related to anesthetics when analysing the urinary biomarkers. Interesting issue. The some small correction should be done in the text. in line 33 the is "purposed" instead of proposed ? In line 159 should be 'are two of the most', in line 171 missed "s" in anesthesia.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Some question/comments rise with regards to methodology. 1. Three subjects from each compared group and their pairwise controls are rather narrow study. It would be valuable to extend the number of subjects, Chosen biomarkers should be verified by SRM/MRM, more accurate than label-free method. However, the preliminary study are to accept, but required explanation of applied method with known limiations. 2.The urine was collected during anesthesia. It would be valuable to examine the protein excretion changes in the time course, with no limitation to only urine collected during anesthesia. This is rather a hypothetical case when urine sample is urgently collected on the surgical table, anyway processed for time consuming MS/MS assays. It would be valuable to complete the studies on later times of collection to capture how long, if really, the effect of anesthesia may confound the proteom. If the study is preliminary, this issue should be commented. 3. How long anesthesia was supported and what was urine volumes obtained from rats ? What was the method of creatinine concentration assay ? Those information should be included in the paper.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
1. See point.1. 2. Althoug two protein excretion trends were semi-quantitatively proved by Western-blott, it should be proven that the urinary protein-creatinine ratios deterimned by mS/MS were changed really due to protein change rather than creatinine concentration. In fact, both are changed, but what were creatinine concentrations before and after anesthesia ? The measured creatinine concentations should be included in the paper. If the observed results reflects immediate changes of protein excretion during anesthesia, one can expect also changes in creatinine, especially that muscle relaxation is the effect of anesthetics action. This requires data completion and a comment.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effects of anesthetics pentobarbital sodium and chloral hydrate on urine proteome (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.813v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 11, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
