Review History for Definition of sampling units begets conclusions in ecology: the case of habitats for plant communities [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Definition of sampling units begets conclusions in ecology: the case of habitats for plant communities To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 27th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 18th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on February 7th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 13th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Patricia Gandini
·
Feb 13, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your paper is ready to be published, all suggestions have been taken.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 7, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Patricia Gandini
·
Dec 18, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Your paper only needs minor corrections, please follow the suggestions made by both reviewers. Improving the methods section was specifically suggested by Rev. 2 .
label_author_1
Thomas Wentworth ·
Dec 13, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
I believe the submission is of high quality relative to PeerJ's standards of basic reporting. The English is excellent, and I have annotated the MS (attached) with notes that the authors can use to correct minor grammatical errors or areas that require clarification. My principal concern is with the proliferation of nomenclature in the MS, especially with respect to terms containing the word "expert." As I began to read through the introduction, I found it a bit confusing to separate three terms: expert knowledge, formal definition of sampling units, and subjective definition of sampling unit. I think the authors need to make it clear that “expert knowledge” is an umbrella term applied to both formal and subjective sampling approaches. It took me a while to understand this simple nomenclatural concept. On line 40, the concept is made less clear by introduction of a new term, “expert opinion.” Later, the introduction of new terms, “knowledge” (with no modifier) and “expert judgment,” in the paragraph beginning on line 62 further “muddies the waters.”
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I believe the experimental design is rigorous and meets PeerJ's standards.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
While the results are certainly valid, I think the authors should do better job of stating why their work advances an area where some previous work exists. In the sentence beginning on line 44, the authors cite previous studies (Chytrý, 2001; Botta-Dukát et al., 2007; Hédl, 2007) that demonstrate biased results from subjective sampling. I would thus like to see some statement of what this research adds to the subject beyond what has already been discovered by previous researchers.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
In the sentence beginning on line 91, how can an average vary? Should there not be just a single value reported for average precipitation? I don't think the raster of 2x2 km landscape areas will be clear at the size of reproduction of Fig. 1. I do not fully understand the statement beginning on line 135. Is the study blocked by bedrock type? If so, there would be three blocks in each reindeer district, rather than 4 in one and 5 in the other. The sentence beginning on line 169 needs attention for clarity’s sake. In particular, what is a ribbon? Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Wentworth TR ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Definition of sampling units begets conclusions in ecology: the case of habitats for plant communities (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.815v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 18, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
How was the digital elevation model constructed, which are the source data of the DEM? As you state later on, the habitats occur on a smaller spatial scale than represented by the DEM. For repeatability, an idea of the "quality" of the DEM is interesting. The formal selection of sampling units is not clearly explained - were the topographical criteria for locating mesic and snowbed habitats the same? (i.e. anything between 5 and 30 deg.)? In the discussion you state that "the definition of habitats in our formal approach involved abiotic characteristics known to represent the habitats in question (slope, curvature, altitude)". The predefined definitions of these criteria, in particular relating to slope, is however missing. - "the sampling unit had to show characteristics indicating both target habitats" - what does this mean? Are the two habitats sampled simultaneously - do you find both habitats within a 25 x 25 m pixel? Isn't the sampling unit one habitat? - "this criterion corresponded to a visible shift in plant communities" - for repeatability of the study, this should be expressed in a better way. How do you actually delineate the sampling unit in space? The subjective selection procedure: - did the 75 % vegetation cover criterion also apply here? Statistical analyses - do you treat the plots within a sampling unit as independent, or do you take into account a spatial structure/autocorrelation following the placement of plots along transects?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a well-written and well-founded article, the presentation of results is good and the discussion of the results well-linked to the stated research questions. Minor comments: lines 103-107. sp. and ssp. should not be in italics line 151: better than "the same habitats as in" is "the sampled habitats in" line 236: you found opposite effects among/between the two districts, not within line 301-302: replace it are with it is, or rephrase the sentence. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Definition of sampling units begets conclusions in ecology: the case of habitats for plant communities (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.815v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 27, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biodiversity conservation
