Review History for Found in transition: applying milestones to three unique discharge curricula [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Found in transition: applying milestones to three unique discharge curricula To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 20th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 20th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on February 13th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 15th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Diann Eley
·
Feb 15, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you again for your attention to all the reviewers' comments. You have addressed each comment thoroughly and edited your manuscript accordingly.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 13, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Diann Eley
·
Jan 20, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
We found your paper to be well written overall with a clear rationale for the study. The main concern, which is noted by both reviewers, is that it lacks explanation of some basic terminology from the start of the manuscript. Unfortunately this contributes to confusion throughout and takes away from the general clarity as well as the message of your paper. Please see the reviews which give helpful comments in this regard.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Question Abstract Methods - - what is a Q-sort exercise? - how many people involved? - what did these people do - as opposed to what the authors did - where did the Milestones come from? - what is a innovative transition of care curricula? Abstract Results- -should the "game boards" be explained? - is simulation and simulation innovation the same thing? - is discharge clinic feedback and discharge clinic the same thing? is Tracer and milestones and tracer the same thing? - is there any overlap in teh 5/22, 9/22 and 7/22? Conclusion I don't understand this - don't get t his feeling from the results presented in the abstract FULL TEXT 61- IM not defined - assume it is Internal Medicine 71 APDIM not defined METHODS I need an example of some of these 142 curricular milestones- I don't understand what was actually done What is a Q-sort? How many people were involved in the research process? ie how many Units of 2-3 people were involved? did they rank the 22 or the 144? 109-116 I would have thought 100% of the top 8 came from the list of 22 milestones? 132-136 what is PC C2? What is IPC A5? 158- Is Tracer a person? 171- what is a game board Conclusion no idea if this is supported by the results
Experimental design
label_ed_1
not sure
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
not sure
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
not sure Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Found in transition: applying milestones to three unique discharge curricula (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.819v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Victoria Brazil ·
Jan 19, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Given the relative complexity fo the project - the clarity of writing is a strength. The case for the research, and significance of the issue is built nicely in the introduction, the methods are explained well, and the results reported in an understandable format. The abstract could be modified for further simplicity eg using 'Q-sort' terminology without explanation in the abstract may be confusing. Maybe 'validated ranking process' or similar. The tables add value and are clear.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The researchers have explained the retrospective limitations. However I think the mapping approach is a good way to deal with matching existing curricular into new frameworks ( or vice versa), and provides readers with a pragmatic approach that might prevent losing useful approaches in a rush to the new framework. The biases and limitation of 'expert consensus' are acknowledged.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The processes for deriving the data is well described and would be reproducible. The nature of EPAs as the 'endpoints' is somewhat subjective and this affected the prioritization process. However it is now an important framework and this project illustrates a way to approach that subjectivity. Importantly I don't think the authors 'overreach' in their conclusions
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
thank you for the opportunity to review. Important topic. Well done Probably more for educators than practitioners as target audience Cite this review as
Brazil V ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Found in transition: applying milestones to three unique discharge curricula (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.819v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 20, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
