Review History for What is the “normal” fetal heart rate? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History What is the “normal” fetal heart rate? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 4th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 25th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on May 3rd, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 14th, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mandeep Mehra
·
May 14, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I appreciate your attention to our request to outline the review boundaries as well as the new changes to define the temporal change in heart rates. When you review the proofs, please be sure to expand Dr. Lederer's first name in the title.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 3, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mandeep Mehra
·
Mar 25, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
We are willing to proceed with further review if you address the following: 1. Reanalyze and describe the time dependent norms for gestational HR as suggested by the reviewer 2. Please develop a clear explanation for the methods to reassure the readers that all boundries of the available literature have been reviewed 3. Reduce the writing in the sections that deviate from the main focus of the study or with techniques
label_author_1
marlene sinclair ·
Mar 25, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
see below
Experimental design
label_ed_1
see below
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
see below
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The paper conforms to your standard submission guidelines and the only issue I have is the missing raw data. However, the author has provided an explanation and this is reasonable. The paper provides new knowledge about an important fetal heart rate parameter for normality and challenges the status quo based on data collection from 3 German medical centers from 2000-2007 (78,852 tracings of sufficient quality). The value of the paper for discussion on raising CTG alarms when the FH is outside these ‘normal parameters’ is key. I have two issues. The literature search strategy and process is not clear and this could lead to an omission of key papers not included in the COCHRANE review and I think the authors should consider how best to deal with convincing the reader that their literature review is indeed of the highest quality. Changing current practice and changing CTG specifications will require a model or framework for adoption of change and this would enhance the citation of the paper. The paper is worthy of publication with attention to the above minor modifications and I do not need to see the paper again. Cite this review as
sinclair m ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "What is the “normal” fetal heart rate? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.82v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Houchang Modanlou ·
Mar 19, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
A retrospective study on a large pregnant subject population to determine the normal range of fetal heart rate from 20 to 42 weeks of gestation
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Appropriate study design with the use of a valid and proven method that was previously published in peer reviewed medical journals.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Appropriate analysis and interpretation of the data.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Dr. Stephanie Pildner von Steinburg and associates conducted a retrospective study to determine the range of normal fetal heart rate during gestation, from 20 to 42 weeks. The study involved large population of subjects with an established, and previously published, method of data analysis. They concluded that the range of normal fetal heart rate during gestation is 120 to 160 BPM. Not surprisingly, the range of fetal heart rate described here is the same as was described originally by Dr. Edward Hon, one of the pioneer in electronic fetal rate monitoring who also developed classifications for normal as well as abnormal fetal heart rate pattern. Although this study re-confirms generally accepted previous norms, it disputes the validity of other observations that suggest different baseline fetal heart rate. Other comments: The main subject of this study is to establish a normal baseline fetal heart rate but in the section of introduction the authors bring up the subject of fetal cardiotocography, its clinical usefulness in reducing perinatal morbidity and mortality. The authors should limit their manuscript related to baseline fetal heart rate rather than the usefulness or potential benefits of fetal cardiotocography. Therefore, the section of introduction should start with the page 3, line 60 “currently, there is not even agreement on the normal range on the baseline of the FHR. The authors state that the baseline fetal heart rate decreases during the course of gestation and in figure 2 they show a graph related to it. A short explanation why the fetal baseline heart rate during advancing gestation decreases should be given. Explanation: During the early gestation sympathetic nervous system dominates over parasympathetic nervous system. With advancing gestation age towards term gestation vagal tone become more dominant with a decrease in baseline fetal heart rate. Since the authors have a large number of subjects in their study, they could stratify subject population in different gestational groups, i.e. 20 to 24, 25 to 28, 20 to 32 weeks, etc. in order to establish norms for baseline fetal heart rate for different gestation age. Cite this review as
Modanlou HD ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "What is the “normal” fetal heart rate? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.82v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 4, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
