Review History for Cell kinetics during regeneration in the sponge Halisarca caerulea: how local is the response to tissue damage? [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Cell kinetics during regeneration in the sponge Halisarca caerulea : how local is the response to tissue damage? To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 23rd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 15th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on February 8th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 16th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Cheorl-Ho Kim
·
Feb 16, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Your have appropriately revised the manuscript with the comments raised.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 8, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Cheorl-Ho Kim
·
Jan 15, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Discussion section on regeneration of sponge wound region, specifically choanocytes damaged can be extensively added for the cell cycles and apoptosis compared with the vertebrates, as compared to the undamaged tissues.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 4, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
General Comments The authors have conducted a careful study of wound regeneration in an encrusting coral reef sponge. They report that during the process of regeneration the number of proliferative choanocytes adjacent to the wound is reduced when compared to undamaged tissue. These studies appear to have been carefully conducted. The authors hypothesize that reduction of choanocytes is likely due to “Insufficient energy resources to progress through the cell cycle”. The bulk of the paper argues for support of this hypothesis. However, no actual data is provided to support this observation beyond the observation of reduced choanocyte proliferation. That is, no experiments related to energetics were conducted. The available data provides a nice correlation. However, there is not data demonstrating a cause-and-effect. Specific Comments The introduction is unnecessarily long in the description of sponge biology. Please include data on the light/dark cycle of the exposure. Was the seawater filtered? What depth were the sponges covered with water? The following is not going to be common to the typical reader. ‘All calculations were conducted in R, using the lme4 package for mixed 225 linear models (R Development Core Team 2013). Please provide further details on methods of analysis. Line 230-231. What accounts for the color difference compared to fully developed tissue? The discussion, while informative, overstates the case for the autho’rs energetic argument in the absence of any data. While it is possible, even likely, the authors may be correct in their energetics hypothesis…they have not designed or conducted experiments that would test this hypothesis.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Additional detail on the system for holding the sponges would be useful. Additional experiments related to measurement of energy flow through the sponges would add quite a bit of support to the author's hypothesis.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
no comment
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
While I believe you have meet the qualification for publishing in this specific journal, I do not think you have provided adequate data to support your energetics hypothesis. As such, you should edit such that you are not overstating your conclusions when based on the available data. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Cell kinetics during regeneration in the sponge Halisarca caerulea: how local is the response to tissue damage? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.820v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 12, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This manuscript presents the results of the investigation of spatial relationship between regeneration and cell proliferation in the encrusting reef demosponge Halisarca caerulea over a six-day period following experimental wound infliction as well as speed rates of body part regeneration. I think this manuscript is worth publishing in PeerJ as a Basic Reporting. The manuscript is well-written: in general it is clear and the quality of the English is generally good. It is sufficiently illustrated. This paper includes new observations and thereby makes a contribution to our knowledge of sponge cell proliferation rate and of body part regeneration. All sections of the manuscript satisfy expected criteria. This paper should be of interest to both sponge biologists and the specialist in cell kinetics and animal regeneration in natural conditions. Nevertheless I have criticisms in this paper and I recommend that it should be accepted for publication, only after amendment as itemized below. General comments My principal criticism for this MS concerns to authors reasoning with respect to the mechanisms of regeneration (morphallaxis) during regeneration of sponges in general and Halisarca caerulea in particular: Introduction – lines 61-71 and Discussion, lines 286-310. Usually in the works related to the mechanisms of regeneration, primarily focuses on the tissue and cellular aspects of this process, as well as the peculiarities of cell’s and epithelia movements. However, in the MS of Alexander et al. there are no description of the cellular composition of the regenerate, do not mentioned presence or absence of a blastema, no any mention of dedifferentiation, transdifferentiation, morphogenesis etc. It was not show any features of cell movements, it is not known which cells participate at different stages of regeneration. Not description of different stages of Halisarca caerulea regeneration. The principal focus in this MS is on the cell proliferation dynamics during regeneration. That is why, I suggest either completely remove the reasoning concerning of regeneration mechanisms, or include in the article the results of electron microscopic studies of regeneration: cellular dynamics, morphogenesis, etc. It seems to me that the article has nothing to lose if the reasoning, given above (regeneration mechanisms), will be deleted. Moreover, the article will be more seamless. The results presented here on cell proliferation are very good and are of great interest to specialists.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
see attachment review
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
see attachment review
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
see attachment file Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Cell kinetics during regeneration in the sponge Halisarca caerulea: how local is the response to tissue damage? (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.820v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 23, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
