Review History for Prolonged decay of molecular rate estimates for metazoan mitochondrial DNA [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Prolonged decay of molecular rate estimates for metazoan mitochondrial DNA To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 28th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 23rd, 2014. The first revision was submitted on February 10th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 16th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
William Amos
·
Feb 16, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am happy with the changes that have been made. The English is pretty good but could be improved if edited by a native speaker and this would further improve the MS, particularly in the more technical sections.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 10, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
William Amos
·
Dec 23, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both Referees tick the minor revisions box and I agree. To me, the biggest issue is with the clarity with which the methods are described, particularly the randomization element but to a lesser extent throughout. The current text works well for those already in the field but is rather impenetrable for those outside. I would like to see the randomization approach spelled out in detail rather than requiring the reader to go back to the original references. Thus, I was not entirely sure what the issue of self-correlation is in the first place (sorry!), let alone why the randomized relationship had a slope of -1. Elsewhere, I would encourage the authors to read their methods section and try to put themselves in the mindset of a non-specialist, adding a little extra explanatory text wherever this will help make their study accessible to a broader audience. Both Referees make number of other constructive suggestions for improvement.
label_author_1
G. Brian Golding ·
Dec 8, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In my opinion, the article meets all of the relevant standards for the journal.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
NA
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The stated results are supported by the data presented.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Comments on "Prolonged decay of molecular evolutionary rates in metazoan mitochondrial DNA" (PeerJ) by Molak and Ho. This paper looks at systematic biases in evolutionary molecular rate estimates using the molecular clock. The authors show that the biases seen previously are general across taxa and extent deeper in time. Prof. Ho has worked extensively on molecular clocks and is broadly knowledgable about all aspects. This paper is well written and I feel that the stated results are supported by the data presented. I have minor concerns that the timeframes considered here are very long and the inference of rates over such a long time frame are difficult. Relaxed clocks, where the rates are indeed likely to change with time, would be the most appropriate. And intrinsic differences in rate among taxa should be expected. It could be explained better how these factors are each accounted for. I have a minor concern over choosing the oldest calibration point (line 128). Other papers by these same authors have clearly demonstrated that multiple calibration points work much better. Would adding multiple points be capable of removing, controlling for or mitigating this negative relationship? Line 217: I don't understand how reptiles with a slope of -0.24 and p=0.014 can be "significant" with a slope of -1.0. Line 232: The immediately preceeding statements are very precise, while this one is rather vague. Line 294: Sentence structure is mangled. Cite this review as
Golding GB ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Prolonged decay of molecular rate estimates for metazoan mitochondrial DNA (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.821v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Mario dos Reis ·
Dec 21, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comment
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The randomization test (lines 178-188) needs to be better explained. I really did not understand this part. Do the authors have an explanation about why the slope is -1 for the randomized data?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
In general I'm happy with the findings.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This paper deals with the apparent change in the molecular evolutionary rate of the mitochondrial genome as a function of the divergence time. This is an interesting topic and the paper gives a meta-analysis of ready available and new data. Overall I think the paper is fine but I have a few comments. The authors show a conspicuous trend where the molecular rate is negatively correlated with the divergence time, i.e. old branches in the metazoan phylogeny show low mitochondrial rates, while young branches show fast rates. The paper is mostly exploratory and the causes for this are speculated upon. The authors propose that the failure of current substitution models to correct adequately for multiple substitutions is responsible for the apparent negative correlation, i.e. the number of substitutions is underestimated for ancient divergences and hence the underestimation in the molecular rate. In general I agree with this point. We recently studied the pattern of change in omega (=dN/dS) in mitochondrial genomes (dos Reis and Yang, 2013, Genetics), and we proposed model misspecificaiton as the cause for this. Although we did not focus on divergence time estimation on that paper, I think the process is the same. That is, underestimation of non-synonymous substitutions causes an apparent decay in both dN/dS and in the estimated molecular rate with older divergences. The authors may want to look at our mathematical analysis. Now, if the cause for the apparent decay is model misspecification, then the decay is an artifact, and it may well be the case that mitochondrial rates have remained roughly constant throught the 800My or so of Metazoan evolution (of course we don't know this yet but it seems sensible). In this sense, the title of the paper is strange, as it would suggest that the trend may be real. Maybe something on the lines of "Estimated molecular rates decay with divergence time along the Metazoan phylogeny" or the like. This is just a suggestion. Cite this review as
dos Reis M ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Prolonged decay of molecular rate estimates for metazoan mitochondrial DNA (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.821v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 28, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
