Review History for Artemisinin mimics calorie restriction to trigger mitochondrial biogenesis and compromise telomere shortening in mice [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Artemisinin mimics calorie restriction to trigger mitochondrial biogenesis and compromise telomere shortening in mice To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on October 30th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on November 26th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on February 11th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 16th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Joao Rocha
·
Feb 16, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Note that the quality of some figures are not good in the pdf, e.g., fig 3. Please, check the quality of all figures, before the final publication. Thank you again for your contribution to PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 11, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Joao Rocha
·
Nov 26, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
In particular, you have to clarify the methodology and the English needs revision.
label_author_1
Amos Abolaji ·
Nov 21, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is OK.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Well designed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The authors have provided sufficient data to support the conclusions. The statistical analysis was OK. The findings appear valid and convincing.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Some studies have evidenced the toxicity of artesunate at different doses, even at the therapeutic dose.There is need to explain how the present dose relates to the therapeutic dose of artesunate. It is also important to relate the current findings to the reported toxicity of artesunate. Since artesunate is also taken as combination therapy with amodiaquine, it would be interesting to know if the same conclusions can be obtained with artesunate-amodiaquine combination therapy. The author may wish to investigate this later, or recommend this for future studies. Cite this review as
Abolaji A ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Artemisinin mimics calorie restriction to trigger mitochondrial biogenesis and compromise telomere shortening in mice (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.822v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Nov 26, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In this paper the authors report the impact of activation of NO production pathways on antioxidant response factors, expression of genes involved in the ubiquitin proteasomal pathway, telomere length, and protein levels of factors involved in regulation of mitochondrial function. The premise is interesting and the antioxidant response and gene expression data look strong. In several places sufficient detail in experimental design and data analysis are lacking, and there is a tendency to overstate the equivalence of short-term treatments and CR. Interventions to enhance NO signaling are expected to match those aspects of CR that activate NO signaling (including established downstream factors) but this is not the same as drawing broader equivalence. The induction of eNOS and the antioxidant response data are strong (Fig 1 and 2), peroxide serves as suitable control. The gene expression data is nicely presented although the authors omitted directing the reader to the supporting tables. The impact of CR and NO signaling activators on the ubiquitin/proteasome pathway is likely important. Gene expression data are evaluated against protein detection by confocal imaging in (parallel?) treated tissues but the images are too dim and key details in the approach are missing. The telomere data are not strong. One specimen per treatment only is shown and it is difficult to understand how long “three times on every two days” is. The use of a time course of response to the treatments throughout is revealing, although there is some concern about appropriate controls for Figure 6. Overall this is a very interesting paper but it will need some additional work including more detail about the approach and I would suggest toning down some of the conclusions drawn.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1. Provide mouse genetic background and ages of mice used in each experiment and for Fig3, Fig4 and Fig5 please specify the duration of treatment. Also indicate which tissues were harvested and how they were processed. Were sequential injections into the same location? Where the data generated from the tissues that were at the site of injection? 2. Please outline the approach used in generation of data in Fig.5. Were fixed tissue sections used? What was the nature of the dissection referred to in the text? The resolution was not high enough for these data to be evaluated fairly. Equivalence of fluorescence signal is not the same as equivalence in levels as suggested in the text – the signal is dependent on antibody sensitivity – comparisons can be made within detection experiments but not among detection experiments. The legend suggests that treatments were “for three times every two days”, it is unclear what duration of the experiment was. 3. Please check for inconsistencies between data and text, on page 4 there is a confusing section on the impact of treatments on SOD, MnSOD, GSH and CAT for example the sentence beginning “except for SOD…”. Also it appears peroxide not ARG is the most effective inducer of CAT. Was COX evaluated by western (methods) or by ELISA (text)? 4. It is unclear in the text that the DNA repair gene data came from the ubiquitylation RT panel and not a microarray as suggested. 5. On page 8 the authors suggest that treatments lead to mitochondrial uncoupling but there is no data to support this. Furthermore, the argument for biogenesis is not supported as mitochondrial density was not assessed. In the discussion the mitochondrial uncoupling comes up again but now as a downstream effect of respiratory chain activation by inhibition of complex IV. Mitochondrial activities were not measured. A clearer demarcation between data presented and speculation based on data published elsewhere is warranted. 6. For table 1 time course data there is considerable variability in the AL values – it may be more helpful to show these data as fold change from AL. It seems odd that the PGC-1a values at 6h were not significant just looking at the raw numbers. Presumably each time point data were normalized against GAPDH but Fig6 shows only one for the entire set. For the figure as a whole were any of these reprobes of blots or were separate blots used for each antibody. How exactly were the data normalized. 7. In the discussion a model is presented of ART inhibition of eNOS as a means to enhance NO production. NO levels were not measured in any of the experiments. The model requires that production of NO (SNO and ARG) and depletion of NO (inhibition of NOS through ART) achieve the same effects. Perhaps this could be clarified, how is the newly produced NOS insensitive to the inhibitory compound that precipitated increased expression?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Without some of the key experimental methods and details a thorough and fair evaluation of the validity study is going to be tricky
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is an attractive study that is likely to be of interest to PeerJ readers. My opinion is that it needs a little work to improve readability and to clarify aspects of the experimental design. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Artemisinin mimics calorie restriction to trigger mitochondrial biogenesis and compromise telomere shortening in mice (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.822v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Oct 30, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
