Review History for Subject-specific body segment parameter estimation using 3D photogrammetry with multiple cameras [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Subject-specific body segment parameter estimation using 3D photogrammetry with multiple cameras To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 3rd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on December 16th, 2014. The first revision was submitted on February 12th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 18th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Herbert Maschner
·
Feb 18, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Well done. thank you. great paper
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 12, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Herbert Maschner
·
Dec 16, 2014
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
You have two reviews. One suggesting major revisions, one minor. My opinion is that it falls in between. But I like the paper and certainly find it publishable. To make the paper more broad and inclusive, some elaboration of background and less successful attempt to accomplish similar goals might be useful. You also might elaborate the broader impacts and intellectual merit in the conclusions.
label_author_1
Heinrich Mallison ·
Nov 24, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
all fine
Experimental design
label_ed_1
overall, all fine. However, I have marked a few places in the MS where the authors could, maybe even should, go into more details (maybe in the form of an appendix) so that using their method becomes easier for others.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I didn't check every individual number. That said, overall everything looks fine. Also, the authors are appropriately cautious and detail clearly what their results are versus conclusions and speculation. I would like to see two or three extreme data points added - a very obese person or a child. Not a must, but it would go a long way to distinguish this study further from typical regression-based approaches, as it would highlight the strengths very well (assuming it works).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
There are a few spelling etc. issues, please fix. Otherwise, a very good paper. As I commented in the MS PDF, there are a few things I would like to see added or detailed better - not a must, though! Sorry I took the full ten days for this! I had other reviews with short deadlines in parallel, otherwise this could have been done in one day. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Mallison H ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Subject-specific body segment parameter estimation using 3D photogrammetry with multiple cameras (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.831v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Dec 13, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Specific applications and purposes for the results generated by the proposed technique do not appear adequate to fully understand how they will be used.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
All photos were taken at an elevation of 2.3 meters. Since photogrammetry is a line-of-site technique, would not the addition of lower angle images be important in producing a more complete and accurate model? “…using larger numbers of cameras certainly improved the reconstruction quality.” To what degree? Would better reconstruction quality improve the parameter estimations? Can some level of comparative data be provided if more cameras were used? The authors’ repeated acknowledgement of the “overestimations” caused by the test subjects’ clothing and physical pose (i.e., hand and finger position) raises the question as to why were more appropriate measures not used during testing (e.g., wearing of swim or workout attire and no shoes)? Are there alternatives that can be used to accommodate certain cultural or social requirements that might be more accurate than those implemented in your test? What is presented appears to have been a single procedure conducted one time (e.g., number of cameras, their elevation, the clothing and position of subjects), If other alternative methods were attempted, what were the results and how do they compare to what you have presented?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Are the “average values presented in the literature” (lines 176, 182, 302, Figures 3-7) accepted within the discipline as accurate or valid? Is there a range of variability of the body segment parameters that is acceptable? If so, do the results from this proposed technique fall within appropriate ranges? Some of the statements seem generalized, and specific requirements or objectives are not provided. Is the cost and time required of the technique more important than the accuracy of the results? Why is there no reference to related work being done in the private/corporate sector?
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Subject-specific body segment parameter estimation using 3D photogrammetry with multiple cameras (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.831v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 3, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
