Review History for Estimating relative risk of within-lake aquatic plant invasion using combined measures of recreational boater movement and habitat suitability [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Estimating relative risk of within-lake aquatic plant invasion using combined measures of recreational boater movement and habitat suitability To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 19th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 23rd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on February 28th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on February 28th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Isabelle Larocque-Tobler
·
Feb 28, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear authors. I think you did a great job addressing the reviewer's comments and making your text clearer (and shorter).
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Feb 28, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Isabelle Larocque-Tobler
·
Jan 23, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Both reviewers ask for more details on the understanding of dispersion. This needs to be included. Reviewer 2 made many points which should be discussed. I do not think that more experiment is needed, more stats as suggested and more discussion on topics highlighted should be made
label_author_1
Helle Mäemets ·
Jan 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Generally meeting the standards; recommendable to add some hydrochemical data into Site description, and about the status of other submergent species.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Conclusions clear, shorter discussion would be better
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
General In the article I suggest to pay attention to the following questions/aspects, not presented yet: 1.Is Myriophyllum spicatum propagating in L Tahoe only by shoots (vegetatively)? According to Preston & Croft (1997) seed germination is very rare. 2.Is L. Tahoe really oligotrophic? Probably it is not very soft-watered lake and so not oligotrophic according all accumulation types (humic compounds, nutrients, carbonates). It is recommendable (very shortly) to show averaged transparency and some general parameters of summer surface layer – alkalinity, TP, TN, Chla as well as depth limit of submerged plants. 3.In site description are named other submergent species but information about their success, possible suppression by M. spicatum, growth areas etc. very scarce. There is a single sentence about dominating of Potamogeton crispus. Probably mechanical stress is influencing other species in the same way? What about the vitality of Myriophyllum quitense? Is the coverage by M. spicatum the largest among submerged species? Details •biserial correlation (r. 238) better in Methods? •...and r. 286 in Results? •The sentences in rows 207-209 and 211-212 seem to be a little bit contradictionary Sentences of the following rows are not understandable: 169-170 214-215 251 265 276-277 It is possible to make a shorter Discussion; about 2/3 of the presented yet. Cite this review as
Mäemets H ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Estimating relative risk of within-lake aquatic plant invasion using combined measures of recreational boater movement and habitat suitability (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.845v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 23, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Review of “Estimating relative risk of within-lake aquatic plant invasion using combined measures of recreational boater movement and habitat suitability” by Wittmann et al. This work focuses on the stress consecutive to recreational boater movements on the lake Tahoe in USA, induced on the occurrence of populations of the invasive macrophyte Myriophyllum spicatum. Here only seven years of records are used to establish the predictive model (1995, 1966, 1997, 2000, 2003, 2006 and 2012). This research matches with hot topics and mainly with the field of managing invasive species in hydrosystems. Assessing the risk of establishment and colonization of an invasive organism is of great interest to the conservation of natural habitats and their sustainability. Vegetative reproduction is certainly the best way for an invasive to colonize new localities as it could occur during the whole year depending on the species like M. spicatum. Stress generated by boats and their movements can break parts of the macrophytes, initiate the release of propagules and transport these organs away. My first comment concerns the number of stressful features considered in this study. Indeed, as correlation analyses were performed, it must be of interest to include other physico-chemical parameters and to conduct multivariate correlation analyses to highlight significant relationships between stressful factors that may be independent when considered alone. Another problem concerns how the species is named into the text. The acronym EWM for Eurasian watermilfoil is incorrect. It is necessary to respect the Latin nomenclature rules and to name the species either Myriophyllum spicatum or M. spicatum. Poor information is provided concerning the ecological affinities of this taxon, e.g., trophic conditions (N, P, K), pH (mean values), current velocity (mean values), etc. This is necessary for readership unfamiliar with plants and especially macrophytes. In references, I am not sure that the article “Von Holle B, Simberloff D. 2005. Ecological resistance to biological invasion overwhelmed by propagule pressure. Ecology 86:3212–3218.” could stay in the “H” section. The “V” section should be preferred.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
In “materials and methods” section, when authors said that M. spicatum dominates much of the submersed aquatic plant community, particularly in the constructed marinas at the south end of the lake Tahoe, they should indicate the percent of area covered by this species. Concerning the interview of 10 questions proposed to persons present near the lake in 2005 and 2006, authors should put it in their article (maybe as supplemental material) as it is the only base of boater behavior on this lake. Readership must be aware of the relevancy of the questions.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The problem with the wave action is that it was only recorded during 14 days in 2006 (13 localities). Consequently how could these results be relevant? In the discussion, the main remark concerns the expected ways of propagule dispersal as no correlation is found with recreational boaters. Authors should detailed this point and provide bibliographical references on this subject. Aquatic birds and/or ducks, e.g., mallard, Canada goose, California gull, can transport propagules from other lakes or in other localities of the lake Tahoe.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
My general advice on this article is that authors must strongly complete their study by studying other stress that allow propagules dispersal. Multivariate correlations must be led to assess relationships between colonization of new localities by Myriophyllum spicatum and environmental parameters. Genetic analyses also should be conducted to establish if vegetative reproduction is the only dispersal way here. Finally, studying such macrophytes populations through metapopulation model will allow to understand the behavior of propagules in waters depending on several kinds of parameters, e.g., wind, waves, boaters, animals, altitude, depth, geomorphology, landscape. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Estimating relative risk of within-lake aquatic plant invasion using combined measures of recreational boater movement and habitat suitability (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.845v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 19, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
