Review History for Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response (ASMR): a flow-like mental state [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response (ASMR): a flow-like mental state To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 18th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 31st, 2015. The first revision was submitted on March 3rd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 3rd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Markus Dahlem
·
Mar 3, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for revising the manuscript.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 3, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Markus Dahlem
·
Jan 31, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Sorry for the long review process. It took me quite a while to get reviewers. But now we have to positive reviews, #2 with minor points, which I would like you to handle accordingly. I also tried to get a specialist in the field of migraine aura to review this article. None was available within a reasonable short time. You may want to look in future investigations into this condition, which in about 5% of all migraine cases causes no headache, but interesting mental states associated also with synesthesia (among many other phenomena).
label_author_1
Tom Stafford ·
Jan 9, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Basic reporting is fine I think the introduction would benefit from discussion of the process by which a "lay phenomenon" is incorporated into the scientific lexicon. What does it mean, in effect, to ask "Is ASMR real?"? As psychologists we want to know if the people using the term are describing the same thing (or things), but we also want to know if they are describing some thing (or things) which already have a technical term. The aims of the study (as expressed in the final paragraph of the introduction) are broad. Discussion of the way a phenomenon is brought under scientific scrutiny might help justify why this has to be the case. Lots of work on synaesthesia has been done since Ramachandran and Hubbard, 2001. I think the comparison of ASMR and synaesthesia is very instructive, so maybe the introduction would benefit from some additional consideration of this literature Lines 143- 145 It is not clear if ppts rated their mood at these specific points, or if they rated their estimations of their mood at these hypothetical points (ie they provided all answers at the same time). I assume it is the latter, this could be made clearer
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Experimental design is good
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Figure 3 - this density plot looks nothing like a positive correlation of 0.96. Explain please You might want to check correlation of BDI against change in mood (e.g. after-before). Looks highly significant to me. Relatedly, can we have the data in non-proprietry format (eg .csv rather than .xlxs) please line 283 "Synaesthesia appeared to be particularly prevalent within the sample" - 5.9% vs 4.4% doesn't seem high to me. Isn't there a test you could do? Null H: prevalence is 4.4%. n = 475, what is p>5.9%? I bet you'd expect a higher than 0.05 proportion of samples with greater than 5.9% synaesthesia in a sample of 475 even with true rate of 4.4%
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
An important initial survey of an little researched area, well motivated, thoroughly conducted, clearly presented and highlighting the rich possibilities for future work. Cite this review as
Stafford T ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response (ASMR): a flow-like mental state (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.851v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 30, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This is an interesting paper reporting a survey on a topic, which has received lots of attention worldwide. It is about ASMR a phenomenon widely used and reported but with no substantial scientific support. Thus, this paper is urgently needed to start a scientific discussion about this phenomenon. In the following I have listed my comments and suggestions. Introduction The introduction is fine and covers many interesting aspects, which might be associated with ASMR. Some citations seem to be placed not correctly. For example, the Ramachandran & Hubbard citation refers to a grapheme-color synesthesia issue and not to the link between ASMR and synesthesia. But anyway, that is not that problematic. At the end of the introduction the authors should describe that they plan to do a survey and that they plan to obtain subjective rating data. They should also why they used this line of research and not for example a neuroscientific or cognitive science approach utilizing more strongly experimental techniques. Methods Subjects: Is there some in addition available about the subjects? Profession or specific expertise? What about psychiatric diseases? Whether the number of synesthetes in this group is larger as compared to a non-biased sample is unclear since the authors did not perform statistical tests. Anyway, I am pretty sure that there is no substantial difference to the unbiased sample. Discussion The discussion is fine. I am a bit skeptical whether there should be a special link to synesthesia. First of all, the number do not support this link (5.9 vs 4.4%). Second, synesthesia is a fast and automatic double perception which is simply there and is not supported by some kind of relaxation-like prerequisites. Beside of that the discussion is fine and helpful to understan that problem.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This is a survey study. They have used state-of-the-art techniques.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are fine based on the methods used.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Fine and important work Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response (ASMR): a flow-like mental state (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.851v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 18, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
