Review History for The influences of N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) on the cytotoxicity and mechanical properties of Poly-methylmethacrylate (PMMA)-based dental resin [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The influences of N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) on the cytotoxicity and mechanical properties of Poly-methylmethacrylate (PMMA)-based dental resin To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 6th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 1 reviewer and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 13th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on March 9th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 10th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Melissa Grant
·
Mar 10, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your changes to the manuscript. I have no further comments or changes to make.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 9, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Melissa Grant
·
Feb 13, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Based on my own reading, in addition to the reviewer's comments I would also like to ask for a few alterations to the manuscript: 1. In the introduction GSH is described as an enzyme when it is just a peptide. Please cane you rephrase line 53. 2. In the Cell viability section of th ematerials and methods line 122 did you mean sterile filtered instead of disintected by infiltration? 3. I think table 1 would be clearer as a line graph to show the temporal change with degree of conversion. 4. The use of letters for symbolizing the degree of significance needs careful and further explanation, either in the methods section on statistical analysis or in the figure legends describing the graphs where it appears. For instance A=p<0.05 etc. It should be noted which comparison is being displayed eg all data compared to control (no PMMA).
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Feb 8, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The manuscript is written in a proper way and clearly presents the background literature, the aim of the study and the design of the experiments. The Figures and the Table are presented in a proper way.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
PMMA based dental resin is one of the most frequently used materials in dentistry. However, un-polymerized monomers released from the resin are cytotoxic molecules because they disturb the intracellular redox balance. Therefore, it is suggested to incorporate NAC in PMMA resins in order to protect the cells from oxidative stress induced by the PMMA monomers. The current study investigates the influences of NAC on cell survival and attachment as well as on important mechanical properties of PMMA resin. The experiments are well designed and performed in a proper way. Technical comments: Fig. 1: How many times the determination of extracted NAC concentration was repeated? Line 226: p > 0.05 probably should be p< 0.05 Line 229: p < 0.05 probably should be p> 0.05
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
It is concluded that NAC (0.15%) remarkably improved biocompatibility of PMMA resin without exerting significant negative influence on its mechanical and physical properties. The Figures and the Table supports the conclusion presented in the manuscript.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "The influences of N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) on the cytotoxicity and mechanical properties of Poly-methylmethacrylate (PMMA)-based dental resin (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.868v0.1/reviews/1 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 6, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
