Review History for Psychosocial interventions for adults with visible differences: a systematic review [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Psychosocial interventions for adults with visible differences: a systematic review To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on November 24th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 14th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on March 6th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 11th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Debra Moser
·
Mar 11, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thanks for your response to the reviewers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 6, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Debra Moser
·
Jan 14, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please note the comments of both reviewers that you must refocus this review given that your only result was that the review as written provides nothing new! Surely, you can change your focus so that you get a review of an important new area in this research arena.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Nov 30, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1. too verbose. Needs at least 30-50% reduction in size 2. Unfocused. Too many conditions, too many types of interventions, too few studies 3. Poor quality of studies 4. Essentially it is garbage-in garbage-out and report of no knowledge. Ok but this does not justify such a lengthy paper just to say that 'ok there is nothing out there' 5. Accept as a brief report only
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1. Unfocused. Too many conditions, too many types of interventions 2. otherwise ok
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
garbage in garbage out and this is more or less awknowledged by the authors
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Accept as a brief report only. Essentially we knew already Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Psychosocial interventions for adults with visible differences: a systematic review (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.870v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Nigel Lester ·
Dec 11, 2014
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Whilst this is in general an important area for study the rationale for the basic assumptions/definitions and inclusion criteria used is not entirely clear (For example: "It was considered that the needs of individuals with “hidden” differences might be different to those with normally visible differences, meaning that different intervention techniques may be appropriate" This assumption would benefit further explanation especially as this is one of the ways many studies were apparently excluded) The reference in the discussion to specific interventions that are not specifically referred to in the papers evaluated is hard to understand and the reader can evaluate why these interventions matter as much as the authors claim ("interventions are necessary for increasing service provision for individuals with visible differences. These include… ")
Experimental design
label_ed_2
This was a simple qualitative literature review conducted in reasonable manner. The rationale for the choices made could have been clearer.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
By their own admission, the authors admit this paper has little to contribute over and above a recent review of the same subject (“The findings of this review were no different to the conclusions of the original review”) and the overall conclusion (that more research is needed) is vague and not detailed enough to support a discussion of what the future direction of research should be. In addition no real light is thrown on what specific questions further research should ask or where in the wider literature clinicians might look for guidance. The authors speculate on issues of funding and service priorities but this is not directly supported by any of the preceding analysis of the literature. There was very little new to learn from this paper. The speculation in the discussion, whilst not entirely irrelevant or uninteresting is somewhat disconnected from the results of the actual literature review and the otherwise negative finding (For example: “The authors suggest that the reason for the lack of scientifically tested interventions is that many self-funded charities have had to pick up the shortfall in service provision and these organizations have been more concerned with spending money on providing services than on evaluating them” This is speculation and it is not at all clear how this follows from the previously detailed negative findings).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
A narrower question concerning the impact of interventions on visible difference drawn needs to be formulated and addressed by a review of the wider literature which might then make for some original discussion. Unfortunately as it stands the paper yields little of use for clinician readers. Cite this review as
Lester N ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Psychosocial interventions for adults with visible differences: a systematic review (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.870v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Nov 24, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
