Review History for Conspicuous carotenoid-based pelvic spine ornament in three-spined stickleback populations—occurrence and inheritance [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Conspicuous carotenoid-based pelvic spine ornament in three-spined stickleback populations—occurrence and inheritance To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 13th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 26th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on March 5th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 11th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ann Hedrick
·
Mar 11, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your conscientious attention to detail.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 5, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ann Hedrick
·
Jan 26, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please revise as requested by the reviewers.
label_author_1
Ivar Folstad ·
Jan 19, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Regarding “Conspicuous carotenoids-based pelvic spine ornament in three-spine stickleback populations – occurrence and inheritance” by Amundsen and coworkers. The manuscript gives the occurrence (although incomplete) of red pelvic spine coloration of populations of three-spined sticklebacks in Norway, its relationship to parasites and individual condition and its sexual dichromatism. Additionally, the manuscript includes an experiment on heritability of the trait. The strong part of the manuscript is the documentation of the common occurrence of red pelvic spine coloration in all sampled populations and, as this is not a previously well described trait in three-spined sticklebacks, I think it merits publication. Yet, the manuscript does not clearly inform about why the particular populations where included. Have they been selected at random or have the authors tried to map a largest possible geographical range? Details about the selection procedure of the included populations should be included. More important, as the authors also detail in the last part of the discussion (lines 385 to 418) there are good reasons to believe that the rearing experiment should give low heritability estimates. I think the manuscript would be much better if the entire rearing experiment was omitted. The heritability of spine coloration is clearly an interesting subject, as the trait seem to be much more stable than the belly coloration. Why not present results from the rearing experiment into a new manuscript where F2 generations of laboratory stocks are compared with the F1 experimental generation (i.e., where to generations experience the same environmental background). As it now stands with a wild caught parental and a F1 generation of experimental (artificially feed) individuals you run into all kinds of problems. Additionally, the location of the population included in the study spans over a large altitude and longitude and although this information is available to the authors (see table 1) no attempt is done to see if such variables can be used as predictors of differences in spine coloration between populations. This attempt could be included. I have lots of comments on the details of the presentation and have sent this to the authors.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
see above
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
see above
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
see above Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Folstad I ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Conspicuous carotenoid-based pelvic spine ornament in three-spined stickleback populations—occurrence and inheritance (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.872v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 26, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The English has problems in spots, and thorough proofing is recommended, also to remove minor errors. Specific Comments: Abstract, title: Three-spine and three spine – be consistent. "Carotenoids-based" should be carotenoid-based Line 34-35: citation format is not consistent Line 36: probably more accurate to say constrain investment in offspring rather than female fitness 47: should be "explanations for" 50: should be "and evolutionary biology" 52: should be "defensive armour" 54-55: no consistent approach to order of citations 68: should be "females" 162: 6 January out of place? 202: the P value is a significance value? That does not look correct. 319: not sure why father's IR is not mentioned-please explain. 334: should be "that the caroten…" 393: I think they mean the number of crosses and offspring? Better to be more explicit. 399: perhaps this will be fixed by the journal, but et al. should be italicized throughout. Literature cited: the formatting is not consistent, in particular the use of periods with initials. 515: typo
Experimental design
label_ed_2
My concerns are minor but worth addressing: 192: what sort of line? 205: can they explain the adjustment more fully? 285: was any adjustment made to account for variation in female gravidity? If not, this may be the cause of the negative result, at least for females
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
My only concerns are minor and more appropriate to the previous section. The interpretation of the results is generally cautious and reasonable.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is an interesting study that seems to have been carried out competently and using relatively standard protocols. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Conspicuous carotenoid-based pelvic spine ornament in three-spined stickleback populations—occurrence and inheritance (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.872v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 13, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
