Review History for Effects of preservation methods of muscle tissue from upper-trophic level reef fishes on stable isotope values (d13C and d15N) [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Effects of preservation methods of muscle tissue from upper-trophic level reef fishes on stable isotope values ( d 13 C and d 15 N) To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 22nd, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 28th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on March 11th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 12th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Sadasivam Kaushik
·
Mar 12, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
We appreciate that you have given due consideration to the comments and questions raised by the two referees. We also noted that appropriate changes have been made in the MS, where explanations / changes / additions were required.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 11, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Sadasivam Kaushik
·
Jan 28, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The MS has been reviewed by two independent referees who both find the study and the findings of interest but raise a few questions. The authors are requested to address these issues.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 14, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
In general, this manuscript is well-written and clear. The authors have assumed that protein or lipids are being extracted by preservative, and in general have a good discussion about possibility of protein extraction. I feel they are missing some key references and discussion of the effects of lipid extraction on C:N ratios (further discussed in "Validity of the Findings"), and including this may improve their manuscript. I particularly encourage them to review Logan, J. M., Jardine, T. D., Miller, T. J., Bunn, S. E., Cunjak, R. A., & Lutcavage, M. E. (2008). Lipid corrections in carbon and nitrogen stable isotope analyses: comparison of chemical extraction and modelling methods. Journal of Animal Ecology, 77(4), 838-846. I am not convinced that Tables 2 and 3 are necessary. Table 2 could easily be incorporated into the text on page 8 (line 114) of the submission and Table 3 appears to duplicate information that is better illustrated in Figure 2. Figure 1 would benefit from additional location information (i.e. were the fish collected from anywhere within the dashed box?). The caption for Figure 2 could benefit from additional description of what "A" and "B" depict, plus what the dashed line denotes. The captions for Figures 3-6 could benefit from additional reminders of what "corrected" means. The figures themselves could also benefit from clearer demarcation of which panels depict ethanol or salt (i.e. labels right on the figure, as with the d15N and d13C labels, rather than in the caption). Figure 7 is interesting but I am not sure the results are quite as alarming as the authors seem to suggest (further discussed in "Validity of the Findings"). There are minor issues with sentence flow in the methods section, and a typo on page 7 line 85 (Carlo-Erba). I also suggest that the authors maintain consistent use of either scientific or common names throughout the figures.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The research question is clearly defined, relevant and meaningful given that most of the literature suggests species-level correction factors are needed. There may be a question as to whether the "control" is actually a control since it was also preserved for 30 days rather than analyzed straight away. I believe there are studies that suggest flash-freezing fish muscle tissue results in negligible impacts on the carbon and nitrogen stable isotope signatures of said tissue, and the manuscript would benefit from discussion of this. It would be more appropriate to use one ANOVA per species (comparing between all preservation methods) rather than multiple t-tests. If the authors have the ability (i.e. data collected but not presented and/or specimens available to be analyzed), the manuscript may benefit from inclusion of bulk C:N values ("unpreserved"), bulk d13C values and lipid-free d13C (i.e. not just preserved and assumed to be lipid or protein-depleted) values for each species.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The main issue I see is a lack of discussion of effects of lipid extraction on d13C and d15N values. The authors could do a better job of acknowledging that preservation does not only affect protein in tissues (which they do discuss), but is well-known to affect lipids. The manuscript could benefit from a discussion of the expected rates of exchange of protein and lipid between the preserved tissue and the preservative (i.e. is 30 days long enough to see changes in all species for all preservatives? Is it possible that exchange rates for some species would be slower than others? Is it possible that not all of the lipids were extracted and this may be why the C:N correction does not appear to be adequate for some species?). The results depicted in Figures 3-6 should be considered in this light. Figure 7 is interesting and I wonder if discussion of the relative fat content of each species would help explain some of the magnitude of differences (I am unfamiliar with these species). At the same time, given the relatively small differences in terms of things like trophic level, I am not sure that the strong language used in the discussion in relation to Figure 7 is warranted. Suggesting caution is fine. The final piece of the discussion where the authors attempt to connect to the Deep Horizon spill is somewhat awkward and out of place. I suggest the authors include more discussion of the possible applications of these types of studies to broader issues (because there are many - possibilities to consider are the use of historic specimens preserved in ethanol being compared to contemporary specimens and the ease of use/reliability/suitability of salt preservation vs. freezing - I believe other studies have suggested that salt is a reliable alternative but this study seems to contradict that), if they wish to include this piece. This may require slight edits to the introduction to ensure the discussion pieces do not seem out of place.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Effects of preservation methods of muscle tissue from upper-trophic level reef fishes on stable isotope values (d13C and d15N) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.874v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 27, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments.They are included in the General Comment Section
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments.They are included in the General Comment Section
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
No comments.They are included in the General Comment Section
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The paper examines the effects of preservation methods of muscle tissue on stable isotope values. Its value is of practical importance as the application of SIA is a relatively recent innovation in ecology studies and its application is spreading nowadays so it worthwhile to be published. The objective of the paper are clearly stated and the conclusions drawn consequently. Clear and unambiguous text has been used. While the authors suggest ready explanations for the differences observed according to three preservation techniques, the significant changes registered among the considered fish species have not been discussed or even speculated. I suggest to reinforce the paper with some considerations in this respect. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Effects of preservation methods of muscle tissue from upper-trophic level reef fishes on stable isotope values (d13C and d15N) (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.874v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 22, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
