Review History for The effects of set volume during isolated lumbar extension resistance training in recreationally trained males [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History The effects of set volume during isolated lumbar extension resistance training in recreationally trained males To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on January 31st, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 8th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on March 12th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 13th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Virginia Abdala
·
Mar 13, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I've checked the paper and am pleased. I think that this is a valuable contribution to the field.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 12, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Virginia Abdala
·
Mar 8, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Prof. Steele, Both reviewers pointed out that your paper contained interesting material that deserves publication. I find both reviews informative and helpful and I ask you to consider the suggestions carefully and in all neccessary detail.
label_author_1
Eric Drinkwater ·
Feb 12, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The writing style, paragraph and sentence structure, and grammar were well done. The authors have done an excellent job in reporting their data analysis with confidence limits, effect sizes and exact p-values (even for results that were not significant). I’m not comfortable that the first two sentences of the abstract being about LBP. The same could be said about the manuscript’s introduction. This manuscript is not about LBP nor was there any measure relating to LBP. This manuscript is about training volume. That the muscles trained may have implications in LBP may feature late in the discussion, but making LBP such a prominent point is misleading the reader from the start about LBP when, in fact, no such conclusion can be drawn from the data.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
I was surprised at a protocol that takes its participants to failure on back extensions. Can the authors please provide some comment on the risk of lower back injury by fatiguing supporting muscles during a flexion/extension protocol? Is injury why three of the four participants withdrawing from the study were from training groups? Otherwise, the use of the randomized cross-over design is appropriate to address the research question.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Data analysis – as a suggestion, the authors may be able to log transform their data to fix their distribution problems. Using non-parametric tests typically return lower p-values, thus (potentially artificially) tightening the confidence limits. If the distribution problem could be fixed by running a parametric statistic on log transformed data, then that would be better (albeit, transforming does not always help fix distribution problems). Otherwise, I emphatically support and commend the authors’ use of 95% confidence limits and effect sizes.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Line 31 – there is no purpose to including “respectively”. Please delete it. Line 66, 67, 180, etc. – “persons” should be used only when there is a defined number, but “people” should be used for an undefined group (“63 persons” compared to “trained people”). Line 148 – need more detail on the manufacturer’s information of SPSS (i.e. IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows, Version 20.0. Armonk, NY: IBM Corp.) Cite this review as
Drinkwater E ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "The effects of set volume during isolated lumbar extension resistance training in recreationally trained males (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.878v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Antonio Arruda ·
Mar 8, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Line 34 – There is one more muscle to cite, square lumbar. According to McGil et al. (1996) it is the only muscle highly activated during extension, flexion and lateral flexion of the spine. Miranda (2000) states that the bilateral contraction of this muscle produces the trunk extension. Line 66 - something seems to be missing in this quote
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Line 82 - Since the participants were currently practicing exercises to condition the lumbar extensors, it would be interesting to report their specific history regarding set volume. Were they training with one or three sets? Which exercise they were performing?... Line 111 - Did you calculate the r for the repeated tests? There was any procedure if the values were divergent (i.e. repeat the test if the difference between the first and the second was > 5%)
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Line 163 - the ES found here seems to be pretty large for a 6 week intervention trained subjects, this reinforces the need for detailing their training history Line 178 – There are others references that affirm the opposite, that trained people should train with less volume when compared to untrained people. In the meta-analysis of Rhea et al (2003), for example, the number of sets were the same for trained and untrained people; however the training frequency was lower for trained people, leading to a low weekly volume. Line 193 - Maybe you can add the high dropout rate found by Haas et al. (2000) when the number of sets was increased from one to three in trained people. Line 248 – It should be said that besides the lumbar conditioning improvement, this strengthening suggests a prevention to low back pain disorders. This conclusion could match with the beginning of the text when the author refers to high incidence in population of low back pain.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a very interesting paper that analyzed the effects of number of sets in lumbar extensors muscle strength of trained individuals. The information brought by the study is extremely relevant, because it allow the design of time efficient programs for strengthening the lumbar extensors, which may have many important applications for low back pain prevention and management. Studying trained persons is one of the strengths of the manuscript, since literature regarding this population is scarce. I would like to make a few observations and kindly ask the author to consider them, as I think they would improve the manuscript. Cite this review as
Arruda A ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "The effects of set volume during isolated lumbar extension resistance training in recreationally trained males (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.878v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Jan 31, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
