Review History for Reducing workplace burnout: the relative benefits of cardiovascular and resistance exercise [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Reducing workplace burnout: the relative benefits of cardiovascular and resistance exercise To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 15th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on February 1st, 2015. The first revision was submitted on March 17th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 23rd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Dorota Frydecka
·
Mar 23, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The additional information is valuable to the reader and addresses the reviewers concerns. We look forward to seeing this interesting report in publication shortly.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 17, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Dorota Frydecka
·
Feb 1, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Burnout is a very important issue in occupational health. However, this study has major weak points pointed out by the reviewers. We think your paper is interesting and could be reconsidered after substantial revision and hope you will be able to submit a revised manuscript addressing the criticisms that have been made.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Jan 12, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The basic reporting is overall adequate. Major revisions: In the first 1-2 pages under introduction, there should be a clear purpose statement, listing the objectives of the paper. Needs a separate heading for literature review, which reads a bit thin.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Very small n of 49 (with 20 in control group). Wide range of ages and mix of male female. Relied on self report of exercise, which is probably not the best method (having folks report for and complete exercise may prove to be a more accurate way of assessing that exercise was completed). Major revision: I think this should be stated with some depth, perhaps in limitations section.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Good movement toward lowering burnout rates and severity of burnout, but again the n is so small.... Major Revision: I am not sure why BMI is included in this section; it reads disjunct, I would say consider removing this section.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
I think we already know that exercise decreases stress and anxiety. Major Revision: I would like to see greater emphasis on the burnout issue throughout the work, particularly in the results, implications, and conclusion section. In the conclusion section: What about the private sector implications around burnout and maybe even cost of burnout? I think you are pretty close here, these changes should be fairly easy to complete, and will really enhance the scholarly level of the work. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Reducing workplace burnout: the relative benefits of cardiovascular and resistance exercise (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.891v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Chen Ruey-Yu ·
Feb 1, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No Comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
1.In this study, participants were randomly allocated to three groups (control, cardiovascular exercise and resistance exercise), aims to distinguish the relative effectiveness against well-being, perceived stress, and burnout among three groups. Base on the purpose, it is very important of measuring exercise patterns and intensity accurately in study design. However, the author only showed participants’ exercise status but did not compare the participants’ exercise status among three groups at the beginning of study. Another concern is if the participants in different group had been polluted by another groups, for example, some of participants increased their exercise frequency or duration because the motivation of exercise were excited; or the participants of resistance exercise might increase cardiovascular exercise besides conducted resistance exercise. Pease give detailed description on how to avoid the problems above mentioned. If the author could not exclude such problem, please add some discussion about it. 2.The author just mentioned participants’ job status was similar, however the job contents and work load could affect workers psychological and physical health conditions. Please briefly describe the participants’ job contents and work load in order to prove no difference among three groups. 3.Although the number of subject is quite low but it was discussed adequately.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
According to table 1, it seems that not all of the measures of Perceived Stress Scale and MBI at baseline were equal among three study groups, using data of subscale change is more suitable than using data at four weeks when comparing the effects of intervention(table 2 and 3).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Burnout is a very important issue in occupational health. The supporting environments in workplace (in this case exercise) are most significant fields for improvements. This is a pilot study to clarify if the pattern and intensity of exercise could get different effects on reducing burnout and perceived stress. We can see something new about the relationship of the health effects and pattern of exercise. However, this study has major weak points such as small sample size and short intervention duration, a conservative conclusion is recommended. Cite this review as
Ruey-Yu C ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Reducing workplace burnout: the relative benefits of cardiovascular and resistance exercise (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.891v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 15, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
