Review History for A field based study of swimbladder adjustment in a physostomous teleost fish [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History A field based study of swimbladder adjustment in a physostomous teleost fish To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on December 18th, 2014 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on January 26th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on March 19th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on March 24th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Mar 24, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
We hope you consider PeerJ for your next works.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Mar 19, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
María Ángeles Esteban
·
Jan 26, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
As per the reviewers, the manuscript has to be improved and the section of Methods have to be completed according to the reviewer's suggestions.
label_author_1
Michael Fine ·
Jan 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
ok
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Missing information. See general comments.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
I am not convinced that the measurements reflect in situ values of swimbladder dimensions.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Although it is generally well written and required a lot of work, I am uncomfortable with Ganias et al’s paper for a number of reasons. First and foremost, it is difficult to believe that measurements in air accurately reflect in situ values since gas volumes, hence ventral cross-sectional areas, are likely to be affected by hydrostatic pressure and ascent, particularly since some bladders were deflated and others distended. I also don’t understand the constrictions in certain bladders and how they affect measurements. The authors do not seem to be aware of papers indicating that herring can make FRT sounds (fast repeated ticking) by eructating bubbles from their anus, reflecting gas loss from the bladder of fish in shallow water (Wahlberg and Westerberg, 2003; Wilson et al. 2004). There is information that should likely have been included in the methods. For fish processing: were the fish processed immediately on deck, fixed or frozen? Time of trawling was not mentioned, and there could be day-night effects since fish are deeper in the day. Fish sex was not mentioned as a factor although ovary size was prominently considered. The size ranges in the different size categories was never delineated. Taking pictures at different angles does not say the number of pictures or the specific angles. The authors use some fancy statistics, which makes the results complex and difficult to follow. I may be doing them an injustice, but I would rather see a number of simple linear regressions using fish measurements rather than categories. Measurements of bladder length could be plotted against total length or bladder weight against fish weight separately for males and females, depth etc. This should allow linear regressions that could be compared simply with ANCOVA. Multiple regressions could be used in some cases such as weight and gonad weight in females. Such measurements would bypass problems with pressure affects and allow the authors to tell a simple story if there is one. Fig. 5 indicates a large variation within the sample, and the individual comparisons I suggest will hopefully reduce much of this variation and add to our knowledge of what happens to these fish with sex, gonad development, depth, etc. Minor points L. 23 Swimbladder gas affects the acousticolateralis system in clupeids and those with specific connections between the bladder and the ears (Yan et al. 2000), but it will not be important in most teleosts. L. 34. The authors make it sound as if there is something wrong with measuring swimbladder volume directly. Just say that determining bladder shape requires morphological measurements. L. 45. Opening is to the alimentary canal and then to the anus. L. 47. Subtle should probably be subject to…, and diurnal, meaning day-active is misused. The correct word is diel. L. 61. Methods for maturity, fat index and stomach fullness need to be detailed. Some of this is mentioned later. Please put it in one place. L. 72, Specify angles. L. 77. Delete “a total of” and “finally.” L. 79. Delete the… in each of the aforementioned specimens… in more detail.. that were collected during the surveys. All of this is obvious. L. 83. Delete Apart from analyzing its cross sectional area variability in. L. 88. Delete as the value approaches 0.0 it indicates and replace with lower values indicate. L. 98. Delete among the aforemented descriptors. L. 189. Blaxter’s statement that gas loss is impossible without activating the voiding reflex does not mean that it was not activated. Michael L. Fine Reference List Wahlberg MH, Westerberg H (2003) Sounds produced by herring (Clupea harengus) bubble release. Aquat.Living Resourc., 16, 271-275. Wilson B, Batty RS, Dill LM (2004) Pacific and Atlantic herring produce burst sounds. Proc.Roy.Soc.Lond.B (Suppl), 271, 95-97. Yan HY, Fine ML, Horn NS, Colon WE (2000) Variability in the role of the gasbladder in fish audition. J.Comp.Physiol.A, 187, 371-379. Cite this review as
Fine M ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "A field based study of swimbladder adjustment in a physostomous teleost fish (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.892v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Jan 25, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
no comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
no comments on almost all areas except that in the manuscript it was not clear if both males and females were used in the experiment and how sex ratio was distributed among samples. To provide a comparison between the two sex in the swim bladder volume would be useful also to further supports the main findings.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
Data and statistical treatment is rigorous and the validity off results enough, however some aspect related to the gonadic maturity patterns in males and females should be still addressed. The authors tested several important variables for haul depth, but to exclude other possibile causes of the relationship between swimbladder and depth, reproductive parameters like sex ratio and maturity stage patterns have to be taken into account. More specifically in the manuscript (at least in the discussion section) it would be discussed the possibility that a sexual/maturing segregating behaviour of spawning females may affects the results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The manuscript address in a new way an important issue: the swim bladder volume variability of an important species whose stock are evaluated mainly by acoustic methods. The work presented could be replicated in other species and other areas in order to increase the acoustic biomass estimation. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "A field based study of swimbladder adjustment in a physostomous teleost fish (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.892v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Dec 18, 2014 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
aquatic biology
