Review History for Feasibility of using microbeads with holographic barcodes to track DNA specimens in the clinical molecular laboratory [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Feasibility of using microbeads with holographic barcodes to track DNA specimens in the clinical molecular laboratory To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 5th, 2013 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 30th, 2013. The first revision was submitted on May 31st, 2013 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on June 1st, 2013.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Praveen Arany
·
Jun 1, 2013
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the reviewers comments appropriately. We look forward to your future involvement with the journal.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 31, 2013
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Praveen Arany
·
Apr 30, 2013
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please address the reviewer 2's concern about amount of DNA absorbed to the beads.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 15, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a well written proof of concept article on a novel way to track specimens through a molecular lab.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The study is well designed and the methods are sufficient to address the study goals.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In this proof of concept these authors were able to demonstrate the feasibility of using microbeads to track laboratory specimens. They appropriately address current limitations of this technique and make valid suggestions for how to further validate this process to make it more widely applicable to different sample types and tests.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2013 ) Peer Review #1 of "Feasibility of using microbeads with holographic barcodes to track DNA specimens in the clinical molecular laboratory (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.91v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Dmitry Shvartsman ·
Apr 12, 2013
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article by Merker et. al, titled :"Feasibility of using microbeads with holographic barcodes to track DNA specimens in the clinical molecular laboratory", presents report of the proof-of principle studies for the identification of DNA samples with holographic glass beads. The authors show that these samples are stable over significantly long periods of time (days and weeks) and that DNA extracts produce specific readouts both in the gene-specific assay, while retaining sufficient amounts of beads for the sample identifications. Article is written clearly, figures are well made and related to the data presented in the main text. Discussion is sufficient to the scope of the article, and presents a perspective on practical applications of the method described.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
Experimental design is clear, and presents several examples of the gene identification assays, based on two methods of DNA extraction. Analysis of the DNA samples is thorough, having sufficient controls in each study. I would like to suggest the minor control experiment, that may determine the non-specific absorption of the extracted DNA to the beads, which may be the limiting step in the overall efficiency of the process.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings for the proof-of-principle studies are sufficient and valid. Discussion had addressed future directions and possible limitations of the presented method.
Cite this review as
Shvartsman D ( 2013 ) Peer Review #2 of "Feasibility of using microbeads with holographic barcodes to track DNA specimens in the clinical molecular laboratory (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.91v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 5, 2013 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
