Review History for Thylacinus (Marsupialia: Thylacinidae) from the Mio-Pliocene boundary and the diversity of Late Neogene thylacinids in Australia [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Thylacinus (Marsupialia: Thylacinidae) from the Mio-Pliocene boundary and the diversity of Late Neogene thylacinids in Australia To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 18th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 31st, 2015. The first revision was submitted on April 13th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 13th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Mathew Wedel
·
Apr 13, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for your attention to the reviewers' suggestions and for taking them in the constructive spirit that they were offered. I'm happy to accept the revised manuscript for publication in PeerJ. I'm going to let the 'emotive' opening sentence stand. Although it is of course up to you whether to publish the review history alongside your paper, I think that doing so would add value to the paper and to science in general. It would be nice to point to in future discussions about the utility of peer review - and in teaching students - as an example of a manuscript that was already scientifically solid getting further tightened up by going through the peer-review process.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 13, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Mathew Wedel
·
Mar 31, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Both reviewers found the manuscript to be scientifically sound, and their comments almost exclusively deal with relatively minor issues of grammar and word choice. I have reviewed all of their suggestions, which seem both reasonable and straightforward to implement.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 27, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The text of this article is generally acceptable, although there are numerous minor typos and grammatical errors throughout that need to be corrected - my comments and suggestions on this manuscript are generally cosmetic in nature. Standardization in capitalization needs to be addressed in the writing, particularly with respect to geochronological and biochronological units (e.g., the author uses both "late Miocene" [line 17] and "Late Miocene" [line 24], as well as "Alcoota Local Fauna" [ine 19-20] and "Alcoota local fauna [line 23] and "Late Miocene - Earliest Pliocene" [lines 273-274]). This should be corrected before publication. In line 34, I believe that the "sandstone" in "Black Rock sandstone" should be capitalized, as this is a formal unit. "table 1" [line 105] should be capitalized. "Sepparates" is misspelled in line 113. Line 121: "medial" should be "mesial" in this sentence. These are some of the more glaring errors in basic reporting that need to be addressed. In addition, I think that Tables 1 and 2 should be combined into a single table (as they refer to dental measurements from the same species) to save space, as should Tables 3 and 4. Headings within the combined tables could differentiate the measurements described. The following comments reflect my own professional opinions in formatting, but are suggestions for the author and editor to consider. I generally think that the use of ambiguous terms such as "large" and "small" are uninformative to the reader in anatomical descriptions unless they are accompanied by a relative modifier, such as "larger than" or "smaller relative to" (etc.) - in the Description section, the use of the terms "small" and "large" are common and I suggest they either be removed or clarified (either through proportional or quantitative additions). Example: line 106 - "P1 is a small, low-crowned tooth." This sentence is just as informative in terms of morphological description if the term "small" is removed. I would suggest trying to remove these ambiguous terms or conform to sentences such as line 113 ("P2 differs from P1 in being larger and proportionately taller." The latter example is much more informative. In addition, the use of the term "transverse" (line 143) is not anatomically informative by itself. I would suggest being more specific by using terms such as "mediolateral width" or "buccolingual width" in this section (such terms are used in the description of Thylacinus megiriani. Also, in the caption of Figure 10, this should be "distolingual" instead of "posterolingual," in keeping with the author's previous use of mesial and distal when referring to dental anatomy of thalacynid teeth.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No comments. I have no problems with the methods the author has used to describe this material.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The section entitled "Size Estimates" should either be changed to "Body Mass Estimates" or other measures of "size" should be included. It might be informative to the reader to provide estimates of body (or skeletal) length in addition to body mass - the latter can (and is) influenced by many variables within a species, whereas the dimensions of the skeleton are more conservative.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Great job on providing a thorough, informative article on this poorly understood and represented marsupial lineage! Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Thylacinus (Marsupialia: Thylacinidae) from the Mio-Pliocene boundary and the diversity of Late Neogene thylacinids in Australia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.931v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Eric Scott ·
Mar 31, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
In terms of content, the paper was well presented and well argued, with sufficient support (given the usual vagaries of the fossil record) for the conclusions advanced. There were a number of grammatical challenges, however; these are noted on the appended pdf.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The manuscript meets PeerJ's scope. The fossils under discussion are well-described, and the interpretations are well thought out and have adequate support.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The manuscript presents a thorough description of the material, then builds a convincing interpretation of the significance of the remains. The fossils all have museum catalogue numbers and so are assumed to be in discipline-specific repositories, although I do not recall seeing this explicitly stated. Speculation is minimal, and noted and explained where used.
Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Scott E ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Thylacinus (Marsupialia: Thylacinidae) from the Mio-Pliocene boundary and the diversity of Late Neogene thylacinids in Australia (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.931v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 18, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
paleontology evolutionary science
