Review History for Calcium affinity of human a-actinin 1 [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Calcium affinity of human a -actinin 1 To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 11th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 24th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on April 17th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 17th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Apr 17, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
I am thankful that you seriously considered all the critical points and revised the manuscript accordingly.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 17, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Vladimir Uversky
·
Mar 24, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Please address all critical points raised by both reviewers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 16, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_1
The authors should provide more detailed information on the calcium binding experiments. What method did they use to remove calcium from protein samples before ITC Ca-titration experiments? What was calcium content in the Ca-freed samples? How did they monitor Ca content of the samples? What was Ca content in the samples in the CD measurements? Did Ca binding change the protein secondary structure?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
It's hard to say anything about validity of the finding without answers on the above questions...
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Essentially more information should be provided concerning experimental details of the Ca-titration experiments. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Calcium affinity of human a-actinin 1 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.944v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Mar 24, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The article is well written. There are a few grammatical and spelling errors, but nothing that hinders a reader from understanding the research. Line 51: 'reduced' should read 'reduces.' Line 109-110: incomplete grammar. '...from of three accumulated spectra.' Line 138: 'Was' should read 'were.' Line 217: The grammar is awkward here. Deleting 'Later' will make it read better.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experimental design is sound.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
When determining the protein concentration, was the protein denatured when making this measurement? The conditions should be stated. On line 165 it is mentioned that 'Figure 3 shows typical heat traces and binding isotherms...' How many replicates were performed? This should be stated explicitly. It is curious that such a difference in enthalpies is observed for the brain and non-muscle isoforms of a-actinin1 although the binding affinities were essentially the same within the range of error. Given a fitting was performed that gave the K and deltaH (DH) value, the TdeltaS (TDS) value should be easily obtainable. This value should also be reported for both the brain and non-muscle isoforms. This will allow for a more thorough analysis of the data and may allow readers to further purse why two proteins which have identical binding loops and similar linkers (shown in Fig. 6) have such different enthalpies of binding. In Figure 3a, 3b, and 3c, the number of points recorded in the heat traces (top) differs from that shown in the integrated peak areas (bottom) corresponding to the measured heat released for each injection. For instance, in Figure 3a there are 30 data points on the top trace and 37 on the bottom plot (in 3b 17 vs 18 and in 3c 20 vs 17). These should be the same unless data points were discarded. Those that were discarded (e.g. the first injection) should be mentioned. Also, I assume the red circles represent the raw data and the black lines the best fit to a one-to-one model - however, a guide to the symbols and colors used should be stated.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Calcium affinity of human a-actinin 1 (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.944v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 11, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
biochemistry biophysics molecular biology
