Review History for Childhood socioeconomic deprivation, but not current mood, is associated with behavioural disinhibition in adults [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Childhood socioeconomic deprivation, but not current mood, is associated with behavioural disinhibition in adults To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 5th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 16th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on April 21st, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 27th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Fred Muench
·
Apr 27, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The current changes to the document are satisfactory and I think the paper adds to the literature. Thank you for submitting. Please make the following change before finalizing with PeerJ staff. Reviewers including myself were looking for more demographics (anything) to make a true demographics table with multiple variables. At no point until the end is that you only have 3 variables discussed. Please include a statement indicating that age, gender and deprivation score were the only demographic variables collected. Please state this upfront in the methods and change the name demographic questionnaire to baseline questionnaire. Having the term demographic questionnaire misleads the reader to expect more but is not a weakness. I look forward to seeing the final and incorporating it into my work. Thanks for your efforts.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 21, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Fred Muench
·
Apr 16, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Authors, Overall I think the article represents a positive contribution to the literature and think there should be moderate revisions based on the independent reviewers comments. I agree with all the comments and they should each be addressed. I would like to particularly highlight a couple comments. I believe a demographic table would be very helpful. The reason is I think, there should be more emphasis on additional variables associated with disinhibition when possible (understand you do not have all of them). This is partially because you are comparing state mood induction with static environmental variables. Because of the lack of findings regarding mood, more emphasis might need to be placed on these environmental/personal variables. Ideally I would add any variables you have into the model to further understand the relationships. With this, I believe the reviewers comments regarding that the discussion should be must more conservative regarding the results and implications should be taken into account. Overall, I believe this is an important contribution to the literature and should be published if the reviewer comments are addressed appropriately. Thanks
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Mar 31, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The introduction needs to be highly improved. Methodology should be improved by adding a great part of the introduction and a clear "measure or material" bullet would be helpful for the reader.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
no comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
In the first paragraph of the discussion, authors should be more conservative on the results found in the current study. Some limitations, such as the very small sample size, do not allow to have robust conclusion, but only speculations of possible relationships.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
The manuscript should be improved. At the moment it is quite disorganised, with important parts written in the wrong sections. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Childhood socioeconomic deprivation, but not current mood, is associated with behavioural disinhibition in adults (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.964v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Marci Mitchell ·
Apr 10, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
A demographics table might be helpful, containing n's for each condition (neutral and negative mood), age, and deprivation score (mean, SD for each) for both men and women separately in each condition. Other than that, I think that overall, the study reads clearly and has a logical flow throughout the manuscript.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No Comments - all limitations are mentioned in the discussion.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
In Figure 1, it appears that there is an outlier near the highest deprivation category (1.0) and was wondering if the correlation was dependent upon this individual. Additionally, outside of the small group near the highest deprivation categories, does the correlation still hold for those between 0.0 and 0.75? When reading the study, the questions that I had were largely related to the mood component having a strong enough effect to be measured in the context of the inhibitory task. Additionally, I was concerned about the variation in age impacting socioeconomic status at 16 (the variation in the time since living in that socioeconomic region) and the lack of measures of current education level, IQ, or current socioeconomic status. The authors do address many of these concerns in the discussion. I do think more emphasis/explanation might be helpful for each of these areas. For example, the authors mention "general cognitive ability", but this measure is not necessarily related to the GRT, and education level and IQ have been implicated in mediating task performance in various inhibitory or interference tasks. Again, education, IQ, and current socioeconomic status are generally linked to childhood environment and I think a discussion covering how various factors can influence socioeconomic status (there is some mention of this, but I think it can be elaborated upon). Finally, I think that the authors might consider discussing possibilities for why their results differ from those of Crosbie et al 2013 mentioned in the introduction (outside of mood).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
I think that the study provides some interesting findings regarding behavioral disinhibition that warrant further study. Cite this review as
Mitchell M ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Childhood socioeconomic deprivation, but not current mood, is associated with behavioural disinhibition in adults (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.964v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 5, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
brain cognition
