Review History for Caveolar disruption causes contraction of rat femoral arteries via reduced basal NO release and subsequent closure of BKCa channels [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Caveolar disruption causes contraction of rat femoral arteries via reduced basal NO release and subsequent closure of BK Ca channels To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on February 10th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on March 6th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on April 22nd, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on April 29th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Ebba Brakenhielm
·
Apr 29, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
In the revised version, the authors have adress all of the reviewers comments and concerns, leading to a strengthened manuscript that is now acceptable for publication.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 22, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Ebba Brakenhielm
·
Mar 6, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
The conclusions made in this study would be strengthened by adding further experimental data or expanding the discussion in regard to what mechanisms may be involved in basal NO release in rat femoral arteries, such as the contribution of passive tension or baseline blood flow.
label_author_1
Julie Favre ·
Feb 19, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
There are a few questions which can be raised because of slight differences between figures and related text: Figure 2: Contraction levels after 20K/Bay are higher (almost x2) than in all the other experiments presented. This should be commented. Figure 4: the effect of Ch-MCD on 80K showed in the figure is not commented. Figure 7A: incubation with MCD is indicated but not discussed.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
There are a few questions or comments which can be raised on experiments: Figure 7: effect of LNAME on Phenylephrine is not really relevant if MCD action on Phe is not tested alone. This should be addressed.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No comments
Cite this review as
Favre J ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Caveolar disruption causes contraction of rat femoral arteries via reduced basal NO release and subsequent closure of BKCa channels (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.966v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Franco Tanzi ·
Mar 5, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
No comments
Experimental design
label_ed_2
No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The Authors show that in rat femoral arteries there is a basal caveolae-dependent NO release, which opens BKCa channels and favours smooth muscle cells relaxation. Whereas this is a known mechanism, the Authors suggest that no other studies are available in the absence of an endothelium-dependent receptor-coupled vasodilator. Indeed, in the work of Rees et al., 1990), mentioned by the authors, L-NAME alone induced a small but significant endothelium-dependent contraction of rings of rat aorta and, in the presence of phenylephrine, a greater endothelium-dependent contraction of the rings. These data suggest that a basal NO release do exist also in vitro. Some experiments, or discussion, of the mechanisms operating basal NO release in rat femoral arteries should be performed. It should be excluded, or discussed, whether passive tension might trigger NO release. Furthermore, the dicothomy 80 K contraction versus 20 K/Bay K-induced contraction is not so clear. It may be supposed that NO release is fueled by a basal Ca2+ influx: if cells are depolarized by high K+, the driving force for Ca2+ is decreased and NO release reduced. Also the data with Iberio toxin should be discussed, since endothelial cells have BKCa channels and the toxin may depolarize these cells. Furthermore, the paper by Bossu et al (Pflugers Arch. 1992 Feb;420(2):200-7) should be mentioned, at least to evidence that no other reports of BK-activated channels in endothelium exist.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
The Authors should focus on the problem of the mechanisms driving basal release, since a basal NO release has been evidenced and the pathway caveolae-NO- BKCa has been largely investigated. Cite this review as
Tanzi F ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Caveolar disruption causes contraction of rat femoral arteries via reduced basal NO release and subsequent closure of BKCa channels (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.966v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Feb 10, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
