Review History for PANDA: pathway and annotation explorer for visualizing and interpreting gene-centric data [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History PANDA: pathway and annotation explorer for visualizing and interpreting gene-centric data To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on April 3rd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 23rd, 2015. The first revision was submitted on April 30th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 2nd, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Shawn Gomez
·
May 2, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for addressing the reviewers' questions and comments.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 30, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Shawn Gomez
·
Apr 23, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Please do address the reviewers concerns. In particular, do make sure to address questions regarding source code availability, licensing, etc. In addition, a response should be provided to Reviewer 1’s question of how to evaluate output from complex data sets involving multiple icons. Whether this is built into the software or just an outline of approaches used by the authors, guidance on how to analyze results would be beneficial to readers.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 15, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
The article meet all PeerJ standards.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
1.Although using different icons can integrate multiple omics data, it is difficult to find patterns in a pathway when the number of icons for each gene is over 3. Thus, the authors should provide some methods to help users find patterns in the pathway. For example, if users select mutation and gene expression features, PANDA should highlight some regions in a pathway that enrich with mutated genes or overexpressed genes or highlight several paths to show the upstream mutated genes affect downstream overexpressed genes. Because the advantage of PANDA is it can visualize omics data and pathway topology together, the traditional enrichment analysis is not useful for PANDA. 2.If the uploaded files contain multiple annotations, PANDA should assign different icons to different annotations. But, currently, all annotations can only be represented by one icon. 3.The authors should provide some examples in the website.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
No validity problem.
Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "PANDA: pathway and annotation explorer for visualizing and interpreting gene-centric data (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.970v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 18, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors report on the creation of ‘PANDA’ an annotation and visualization tool the helps place ‘-omics’ data in the context of pathways, diseases, and drugs. The paper is well written and the authors do a good job of explaining the need for PANDA. They also do a good job of placing PANDA in the context of existing tools. I have seen applications that were conceptually similar to PANDA in a few places, but all of these were closed source, commercial products. If the authors release the code for this tools under an open source license and maintain a public instance that researchers can use for free, the impact of PANDA could be substantial.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
PANDA seems to be well implemented and in my testing worked smoothly.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
This is not an experimental paper so this review category seems forced. However, the authors do provide two practical use cases and do a nice job of illustrating how a user of PANDA would benefit from its results.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
This is a great idea and a nice implementation of that idea. Major issues: In the abstract the authors describe displaying data in the context of pathways but do not provide examples of what kinds of data. The authors should list the data sets they currently support as the linking of disease and druggability information to pathways is a impressive and will increase the likelihood of a potential user actually reading the rest of the article and going to the web service. Can the authors please deposit their source code in a version tracking system (e.g. github?) with an appropriate license? This is becoming industry practice for bioinformatics software and could enable the community to contribute to PANDA or fork it and build something on top of it. Speaking of which, I do not see a license in the current source code tarball. The application is pretty slick and seems to be well implemented as a ruby/rails app. Do the authors plan on releasing this project open source? Until there is a license this aspect of the future plans for the project is ambiguous. Perhaps I missed this, but can the authors comment on how they will update the preloaded annotation content in PANDA. Source like HPO, DGIdb, etc. are constantly being updated. Does the implementation use the APIs of these sources to update the content? Or are they static data dumps that would have to be painfully maintained for each case. A description of how data was obtained from each of these sources would be a good addition to the materials and methods section. Minor issues: The manuscript is for the most part well written. I found a few minor corrections detailed below. On page 1 of the reviewer version of the manuscript, “However, instrumentation has advances far beyond …” should read “However, instrumentation has *advanced* far beyond …” On page 2, “such as deleterious nature of a mutation.” should read “such as the deleterious nature of a mutation.” On page 6, “… we have PANDA is pre-loaded with several commonly used annotation sources” should read: “PANDA is pre-loaded with several commonly used annotation sources”. The authors should probably do one last check for further minor language issues like this. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "PANDA: pathway and annotation explorer for visualizing and interpreting gene-centric data (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.970v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Apr 3, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
