Review History for Causes of mortality across different immigrant groups in Northeastern Italy [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Causes of mortality across different immigrant groups in Northeastern Italy To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 26th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 14th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on April 30th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 5th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Holger Schulz
·
May 5, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Thank you for comprehensively revising the manuscript according to the reviewers comments. No further revisions are required.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted Apr 30, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Holger Schulz
·
Apr 14, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
Experts in the field have carefully reviewed your manuscript and they found considerable merit in your study. However, one reviewer in particular has raised a number of major concerns that preclude its acceptance in the present form. I invite you to respond to the reviewers' comments and revise your manuscript accordingly. In addition, the manuscript needs to be revised by a native speaker to fulfill the publication criteria of PeerJ, i.e. the manuscript must be written in clear, standard, professional English.
label_author_1
Antonio Bernabe-Ortiz ·
Apr 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
Abstract: -Please, clarify the objectives of the study in the abstract. -Please, define in methods the area of provenience variable. -Please, add SMR for some of the important results. Introduction: -Description of the setting of the study should be in the Methods section. Moreover, a better explanation about this region needs to be included in the manuscript, especially for international audience. For example, why Veneto is one of the sites receiving more migrants? Is a rural area? Is a richer area? People travel because job opportunities? -Is the group of foreign people in Veneto is large, what proportion is illegal? Is there any estimation? Methods: -Please use subheadings: Design, Selection criteria, Setting, Variables definition, Procedures (data collection), Analysis, and Ethics. Conclusion: -Please delete the first sentence of this part as it looks like the Introduction. -There are sentences that are not part of a conclusion and need to be located in the appropriate sections. For example: deaths from cerebrovascular disease are mainly hemorrhagic is not a conclusion, the link between ischemic heart disease and overweight and diabetes is not a conclusion. Please rewrite this section.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
Methods: -How data regarding migration was obtained? How information was verified? -“Only consistent information available across mortality records and census data” can be valid for those who died, but how about the alive group? Thinking in potential bias, was there another type of information of used in this analysis? -How the age groups were defined? Why not every 10 years or 5 years as Figure 1? I think it is not a sample size problem. -How the large geographical areas were defined? Why not by country? -How was the process of data collection, especially for death certificates? Is there only one archive for this? How data was extracted from certificates? -Is area of provenience similar to geographical area? Results: -Was there any migration surrogate available for analysis?
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
Discussion: -There is a need of better explanation of results and not only describe them and compare them with other studies. For example, apparently the gap in mortality between migrants and Italians has reduced (first paragraph), but there are not potential reasons for that. Is nutritional transition playing a role? Has the migration patterns changed over time? Similar for causes of death: cancer, infectious diseases, etc. -How the increased infant mortality can be explained among migrants? This journal has an international audience and points such as this need to be clarified. -What is remigration? Coming back to the country of origin? Moving to other place in Italy or in other country? -Truncation can be a good method to avoid underestimation of mortality rates in elderly? But what was the explanation for excluding children? -As pointed out by authors, remigration might be a problem. How much can this affect the obtained results? This is important as years analyzed are compatible with the economic crisis in Europe and the whole world. -Many of this kind of studies lack of an assessment of non-migrant site-of-origin population to compare estimates against. As a result, we are seeing only a part of the problem. As health is every time more global, I think it needs to be discussed. -Reasons for migration are different from geographical area or country or region into the country. This need to be addressed also in the discussion.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Important manuscript as information regarding potential impact of migration on health, especially mortality, is scarce. However, there are some questions and comments that need to be addressed. Download annotated manuscript Cite this review as
Bernabe-Ortiz A ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Causes of mortality across different immigrant groups in Northeastern Italy (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.975v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
J. Jaime Miranda ·
Apr 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
- Methods, second paragraph, starting with "According to the Italian law, children..." Would you please review and edit this paragraph please? I was confused between the inclusion of second versus first generation migrants. - Methods, can you provide any indicator of quality of mortality data in Italy? See http://www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/83/3/mathers0305abstract/en/
Experimental design
label_ed_2
- No comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
- In results, would you please add a flowchart figure for the benefit of the reader, to get an idea of the data handling procedures (excluded vs data analyzed). This would nicely align with recommendations for reporting of observational data (strobe-statement.org).
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Congratulations, relevant to explore and disentangle different patterns that may suggest opportunities for (tailoring of) prevention. Question, would it be possible to conduct a whole-country, all of Italy, analysis? That would also be really informative. If not, would you mind adding why this was not possible? Cite this review as
Miranda JJ ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Causes of mortality across different immigrant groups in Northeastern Italy (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.975v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 26, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
NA
