Review History for Evolution of heritable behavioural differences in a model of social division of labour [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Evolution of heritable behavioural differences in a model of social division of labour To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 23rd, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 21st, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 5th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 6th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Tomas Perez-Acle
·
May 6, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Congratulations for such an excellent work addressing all the issues raised by the reviewing process. Now your manuscript is ready for publication. I'm certain that this paper will attract much attention from PeerJ readers.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 5, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Tomas Perez-Acle
·
Apr 21, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Thanks a lot for considering PeerJ as the source of publication of your best work. As you will see in the following section, some minor issues were raised by the reviewers that will requiere your attention. Once you consider them properly addressed, it will be my pleasure to review your improved manuscript.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 14, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
1 the order of the authors on the first page differs from that in the second page. Please make it consistent.
Experimental design
label_ed_1
No Comments
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
All the results are correct.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
Vasarhelyi et. al. investigated how division of labor can pave the way for the diversity in traits. The model is somehow standard in the framework of adaptive dynamics. And the result is not unexpected. When the trade off between sub tasks is strong enough, the evolution of coexistence of specialised individuals is likely to evolve. 1 I guess the result highly relies on the assumption on how to describe how strong the trade off is, Fig1. It would be natural to assume that CA and CB are two independent variables, and investigate how this will alter the evolutionary divergence when they are both under the selection pressure. In the revised version, a short discussion along this line can benefit the readers. 2 Thought the authors are addressing how the emergence and maintenance of diversity is promoted by division of labor, I cannot see which part of the results refer to the emergence problem and which part refer to the maintenance problem. It should be clarified. 3 there are two traits, one is task-A-choosing probability while the other is the cost of CA. While I am sure the task-A-choosing probability should be a trait of an individual. it would be nice to explain why and how CA is a trait of AN INDIVIDUAL? In addition, it is necessary to explain why these two traits should evolve at the same time scale? Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Evolution of heritable behavioural differences in a model of social division of labour (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.977v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 18, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
Overall, the manuscript presents the proper background, is easy to follow, well-structured and nice to read. Some points that, in my opinion, can be improved: - Line 119: why to study these two models of benefit sharing? Are they ubiquitous in nature? (even knowing details are provided after line 368, an intuition for these functions when they are defined would improve the reading of the manuscript). - Also related with background concepts, I think that the paper would be enriched if more intuition behind the role of trade-offs were provided. A good job is done in the Discussion (lines 368-) where background related with the different benefit models is exposed. The authors could do the same regarding alfa, as they show that the possibility of branching strongly depends on this parameter. Some questions should be posed: What kinds of trade-off curves are more common in nature? There are previous works about the issue? - Sometimes the authors refer to cooperation (e.g. lines 34, 47, 396). In the context of this work, I believe that the benefit function suggests a special kind of cooperation: mutualism, i.e. everyone in the group benefits from DL. A different kind of cooperation, altruistic, would suggest that some tasks have increased exogenous costs, imposed by the environment, and individual preferences through those tasks are not easy to explain. A note on that would be recommended. - A great job is done in the categorization of different DL phenomenon. Yet, regarding clarity and unambiguity, I think that the choice of “unlinked” for a category is not the best one, as it does not translate, per se, any meaning. Reproduction-unlinked, or any other meaningful designation would be preferable. - It would be beneficial for a broad range of readers if the authors provide a short definition of “negative frequency dependence”, given the central role of this concept in the work. Just a short note on line 42 would definitely fit.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The work is well motivated with the interesting conundrum of behavioral diversity and division of labor. The conclusions are strongly supported by both analytical and numerical evidence. The contents fit the scope of the journal (Biological Sciences).
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The analytical demonstration and numerical validation are sound. Some suggestions regarding minor points that could be explained: - Line 287: why different generations for the different group benefit models? Is there any intuitive reasoning for the running times to be different? - Line 268: the authors choose a continuous Gaussian function to model benefit. Lower deviations would generate benefit functions that would, relatively, give advantage to groups with the ratio of chosen subtasks close to 1. The advantage of groups that present both subtasks vanishes for high standard deviations. Do the authors have evidence that this parameter does not change the numerical conclusions? A note on this should be added. - Figure 3: The authors demonstrate, analytically, that the singular point is only a branching point when alfa<1. Numerical results are only presented for alfa<=1, showing that indeed branching occurs. What happens, numerically, when alfa>1? Do the authors have the numerical results to enlarge Figure 3 B for (e.g.) 0.4 < alfa < 1.2, to show that branching for alfa>1 is indeed rare?
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Please, find above the points that should be addressed, in order to improve the quality of the manuscript. Some minor (possible) typos: Line 96: reference to “both models”. What models? (different benefit sharing functions were not yet introduced, if was the case that the authors were referring to them) Line 106: I imagine that the extreme points are cA=0 or cA=k. Yet, what are desirable limits of k? May k be negative? Figure 1 caption: dashed line corresponds to alfa=1. Equations 4 and 5: bA(i) and bB(i). Line 52: reference to not linked, while unlinked is further used. Lines 202 and 215: > appears after G(0)-k and cA’’, respectively. Is that a typo? If it is a specific notation, that should be introduced. Equation 33: typo or unmentioned notation should be introduced. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Evolution of heritable behavioural differences in a model of social division of labour (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.977v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 23, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
