Review History for MetaBoot: a machine learning framework of taxonomical biomarker discovery for different microbial communities based on metagenomic data [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History MetaBoot: a machine learning framework of taxonomical biomarker discovery for different microbial communities based on metagenomic data To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 29th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 21st, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 5th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 11th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Yong Wang
·
May 11, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
The manuscript has been greatly improved after revision. Now I suggest its acceptance.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 5, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Yong Wang
·
Apr 21, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Major Revisions
It's nice to see idea to combine bootsrap and mRMR to find robust and non-redundant biomarkers. Both reviewers think the work is interesting and give some positive comments. Meanwhile, they also have some major concerns to be addressed. I suggest the authors to provide a point by point response letter and the revision. For the removing of redundancy among selected features, an important reference is missing. The recent method in Nucl. Acids Res. (2013) 41 (4): e53 can beat mRMR in gene expression data.
label_author_1
Reviewer 1 ·
Apr 8, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
none
Experimental design
label_ed_1
none
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
none
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
none Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "MetaBoot: a machine learning framework of taxonomical biomarker discovery for different microbial communities based on metagenomic data (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.993v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Reviewer 2 ·
Apr 13, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
The authors give sufficient introduction and background of OTU-based microbial community analysis, but there exists a minor mistake. At the end of 4th paragraph, it's said that "none of these methods directly identify biological features responsible for group relationships". However, tools like Mothur does calculate beta-diversity of OTU abundance and find the OTUs (species-level) that have significantly different abundances.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
In the "Classification accuracy analysis based on synthetic datasets", the authors need to clarify a key point of the experiment design. Was the MetaBoot feature selection carried out on the training set (50 samples) or on the training+testing sets (60 samples)? If it's done on 60 samples, the leaks of testing samples' information will lead to underestimation of classification error rate. In addition, 10 testing samples are not enough to get stable estimate of the classification accuracy. A better way is to run a 6-fold cross-validation.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
For the soil dataset, the selected biomarkers are on phylum-level, thus it's impossible to understand their functional roles from biological / environmental point of view. It's better to use real datasets that can be depicted on genus-level. The authors may be interested in the following papers studying human gut microbiome. (1) A human gut microbial gene catalogue established by metagenomic sequencing. (2) Diet rapidly and reproducibly alters the human gut microbiome.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
In general, the article was meaningful and well organized. Cite this review as
Anonymous Reviewer ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "MetaBoot: a machine learning framework of taxonomical biomarker discovery for different microbial communities based on metagenomic data (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.993v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 29, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
bioinformatics genomics
