Review History for Soundscape manipulation enhances larval recruitment of a reef-building mollusk [PeerJ]
PeerJ Journals Peer-reviewed PeerJ – the Journal of Life & Environmental Sciences PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Physical Chemistry PeerJ Organic Chemistry PeerJ Inorganic Chemistry PeerJ Analytical Chemistry PeerJ Materials Science Preprints PeerJ Preprints Visit PeerJ.org and get involved About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters Sections About the journal Sections Aquatic Biology Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology Biodiversity and Conservation Bioinformatics and Genomics Brain and Cognition Ecology Environmental Science Microbiology Paleontology and Evolutionary Science Plant Biology Zoological Science About PeerJ Journals Overview PeerJ Journals FAQ What we publish 5 Years publishing Solutions for authors Reputation High quality peer review Fast publishing Indexing and Impact Factor Global readership Feature comparison Reduced cost publishing Author feedback Early career researcher benefits Senior researcher benefits Open review (optional) Rebuttal letters More Subjects Search articles Advanced search of articles & preprints PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Table of contents Table of Contents - current and archives PeerJ - Medicine articles PeerJ - Biology & Life science articles PeerJ - Environmental Science articles PeerJ - General bio (stats, legal, policy, edu) PeerJ Computer Science PeerJ Preprints Academic advisors Volunteer to review Collections Job listings Discussions Blog Institutional plans Reviews and awards Spread the word Who are we? Contact Login AUTHORS Peer Journals Overview Submission Guidelines Subject Areas Editorial Board Editorial Criteria Pricing General FAQ Computer Science FAQ Aims and Scope Author Interviews Policies and Procedures SUBMIT ARTICLE
Review History Soundscape manipulation enhances larval recruitment of a reef-building mollusk To increase transparency, PeerJ operates a system of 'optional signed reviews and history'. This takes two forms: (1) peer reviewers are encouraged, but not required, to provide their names (if they do so, then their profile page records the articles they have reviewed), and (2) authors are given the option of reproducing their entire peer review history alongside their published article (in which case the complete peer review process is provided, including revisions, rebuttal letters and editor decision letters). New to public reviews? Learn more about optional signed reviews and how to write a better rebuttal letter .
Summary
The initial submission of this article was received on March 13th, 2015 and was peer-reviewed by 2 reviewers and the Academic Editor. The Academic Editor made their initial decision on April 7th, 2015. The first revision was submitted on May 12th, 2015 and was reviewed by the Academic Editor. The article was Accepted by the Academic Editor on May 14th, 2015.
label_version_1
Version 0.2 (accepted)
Alex Ford
·
May 14, 2015
label_recommendation_1
·
Academic Editor
Accept
Dear Authors, Thank you for submitting your corrected manuscript. I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript has now been accepted for publication and thank you for submitting to PeerJ.
Download Version 0.2 (PDF)
Download author's rebuttal letter
- submitted May 12, 2015
label_version_2
Version 0.1 (original submission)
Alex Ford
·
Apr 7, 2015
label_recommendation_2
·
Academic Editor
Minor Revisions
Dear Author, Thank you for submitting your manuscript to PeerJ. Please note that one of the reviewers has made a couple of suggestions to improve the manuscript you may want to consider.
label_author_1
Mark Vermeij ·
Mar 25, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_1
This is a timely, well-written ms that elegantly highlights a rather underappreciated field in marine ecology. The authors have done a good job conveying this point using a very simple, but effective experimental design. The Discussion nicely elaborates on the authors' findings and provides the appropriate context to topics touched in this ms. I have no issues with this whatsoever.....
Experimental design
label_ed_1
appropriate and effective
Validity of the findings
label_votf_1
The findings are all valid and well supported.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_1
n/a Cite this review as
Vermeij M ( 2015 ) Peer Review #1 of "Soundscape manipulation enhances larval recruitment of a reef-building mollusk (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.999v0.1/reviews/1
label_author_2
Stephen Simpson ·
Apr 2, 2015
Basic reporting
label_br_2
This paper presents the results of a valuable experiment that tests whether settlement-stage oyster larvae are influenced by the addition of acoustic playback using recordings of oyster reefs. The study finds significant evidence that oyster larvae can detect and orient towards settlement sites with playback, particularly earlier in the spawning season when density of larvae is lower. There are a few missing details (see general comments) that it would be useful to include, and I have some suggestions for rewordings, but generally the paper is well written and presented.
Experimental design
label_ed_2
The experiment is well designed with multiple sound files used and counterbalanced replication.
Validity of the findings
label_votf_2
The findings are valid and clearly presented.
Comments for the author
label_cfta_2
Major comments Although published in detail in earlier papers, it would be helpful to provide some information on the acoustic conditions of the original oyster reefs from which the recordings were taken. Also, to qualify the use of playback it would be helpful in Fig 2 to include spectral analysis of the original recordings as well analysis of the playback conditions. More detail is needed on the equipment used for making the recordings, the sound systems used for playing recordings back in the field, and the methods used to derive spectral analyses of acoustic conditions (e.g. bin width, FFT length, duration of recording analysed, example or summary of several recordings?) Currently there is no information on the potential hearing mechanisms of the oyster larvae. While this may be speculative, it would still be a useful inclusion that could direct future research. This is only one experiment, with 8 trials. Check throughout the paper for consistency. Minor comments Abstract Suggest changing 4th sentence to start: Here we show in a field experiment that the… Remove “Measured” Explain the term “collectors” Introduction Line 44: significant challenge TO MARINE LARVAE. L48: Change “signal” to “aid” L49: Change “advantageous” to “suitable” L60: environment AT a particular… L65: Lillis et al 2014a should come first (not 2014b); also L94, L97, L125 L68: avoid superlative: tremendous L72: shorten to: test whether sounds of oyster reefs could enhance recruitment… L74: change “valuable” to “important” (value requires quantifying) L88: remove “aspects of” Materials and Methods L109: pluralise: used recordings taken from L110: Not sure what Fig 2 refers to. Was expecting a map L111: permit numbers in parentheses L125: How was “prevention of interference” confirmed? Fig. 2: What was generating the sound <800 Hz if not playback of oyster reef noise? L150: Is the formula for an Exact binomial test needed, or is it standard fare? Results L166: these are not 8 separate experiments, rather 8 trials of a single experiment L168: simplify: There was no difference in settlement rates between sound treatments in the last two trials, which were conducted during a period of high larval settlement. Fig 3: Use same colours for figs A & B Table 1: Give year as well as day/month Discussion L187: change to: selects substrate using acoustic cues L202: change to: integrates patterns L210; manipulation WAS predicted L213: remove “short-term” L213: change to: additional sound could lead to long-term differences in oyster density L215: recruitment correlates with L222: remove “known to be” L223: larval settlement occurs with less selectivity L226: patterns do not relate to acoustic conditions when References Italicise species names Lowercase titles except first word Capitalise first letters of journal titles Cite this review as
Simpson S ( 2015 ) Peer Review #2 of "Soundscape manipulation enhances larval recruitment of a reef-building mollusk (v0.1)" . PeerJ https://doi.org/10.7287/peerj.999v0.1/reviews/2 Download Original Submission (PDF)
- submitted Mar 13, 2015 All text and materials provided via this peer-review history page are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
About us - PeerJ team | Our publications | Benefits | Partnerships | Endorsements Awards Resources - FAQ | Careers | Pressroom | Terms of use | Privacy | Contact Academic boards - Advisors | Editors | Subject areas Follow us - PeerJ blog | Twitter | Facebook | LinkedIn | Pinterest Submission guides - PeerJ (life - bio - med) | Computer Science | Chemistry | PeerJ Preprints instructions Spread the word - Activities | Resources PeerJ feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Computer Science feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON PeerJ Preprint feeds - Atom | RSS 1.0 | RSS 2.0 | JSON Archives - PeerJ | PeerJ Computer Science | PeerJ Preprints
©2012-2019 PeerJ, Inc | Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified. PeerJ ISSN: 2167-8359 PeerJ Comput. Sci. ISSN: 2376-5992 PeerJ Preprints ISSN: 2167-9843
zoological science
