Anticipation from sensation: using anticipating
synchronization to stabilize a system with inherent sensory
delay
Henry Eberle, Slawomir J. Nasuto and Yoshikatsu Hayashi
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171314.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171314
Review timeline
Original submission: 11 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 February 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 9 February 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171314.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Henning Voss)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see attached file. (Appendix A)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171314)
28-Dec-2017
Dear Mr Eberle,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Anticipation from Sensation: Using Anticipating
Synchronisation to Stabilise a System with Inherent Sensory Delay") have now received
comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the
referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential
reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 20-Jan-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
3
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171314
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
4
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Simon Schultz (Associate Editor) and R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments (Dr Simon Schultz):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_2
The paper cannot be published in its present form; however, with major revisions incorporating
all suggestions made by Reviewer 1, it could be considered.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Please see attached file.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171314)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-171314.R1 (Revision)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Henning Voss)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
5
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Great paper.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171314.R1)
09-Feb-2018
Dear Mr Eberle,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Anticipation from Sensation: Using
Anticipating Synchronisation to Stabilise a System with Inherent Sensory Delay" is now accepted
for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
6
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Simon Schultz (Associate Editor) and R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
Great paper.
ppendix A
e authors describe a form of anticipatory synchronization, sensory coupling, which was inspired by
man tracking experiments. In contrast to previous approaches, the authors say that in this case anticipation
ms an integral part of the control loop. The scheme is demonstrated numerically on two simulated
tems and works also for non-constant delays.
is is an interesting contribution but, although from within this field, I have difficulty to understand it. I
ume this is mostly due to lack of clarity in the description and quality of presentation, mostly the figures.
order to be publishable, the manuscript needs to be clear even to people not from this field, so there is
mething to do in order to make this possible. In the following, these problems are detailed. However, I
uld recommend even after having addressed my specific comments, the authors take a step back and
nk of how in general the manuscript could be made more accessible for non-experts in this specific field
application.
general, I have difficulties to understand the differences between the different approaches and how they
ate to delayed tracking experiments. In the tracking experiments, there is an artificial feedback delay, but
an artificial sensory delay. To clarify, maybe all delay terms in the manuscript should be labelled
ether they are feedback or sensory delays, also in the block diagrams. In the same sense, Figures 2 and 4
not fit together; in Figure 4, the leftmost delay is a sensory delay but it is outside of the feedback loop,
ereas in Figure 4 the sensory delays are inside. Later, in section 2.2., things are specified further. I have
feeling that re-structuring the manuscript already could clarify things a bit.
er “The sensory coupling is used in two different ways, distinguished by the nature of the slave…”
ther block diagram would be useful to better understand the distinctions made. Also, for the parallel
roach, there is no block diagram?
en the authors say “body (plant)”, do they mean the human body? Maybe it would be better first to
ntion that “plant” in the following could be the human body or an artificial plant (if I understand it
rectly) and then continue with plant only.
his was chosen as a system that is highly nonlinear and difficult to predict in order to discount trivial
ticipation' due to simply overshooting the target”: What does this mean? How would an overshooting
del look like specifically? Would overshooting cause apparent anticipation by means of cross-correlation
h negative lag, too, and if yes, why is it to be avoided? If these questions cannot be easily answered,
ybe it is better not to mention ‘overshooting.’
Figure 5, if anticipation is represented by negative color (blue), then I only see lag for large tau_f, but no
icipation. I am very confused by that figure.
o, it is unfortunate to use ‘green’ both for small lead and lag. One clearly cannot distinguish, based on
or, what is lead and lag. The color scale should have a discontinuity at zero to make it meaningful.
ure 8: I neither see the mentioned sharp peaks in the target's motion, nor any oscillations of the effector.
l 2D color plots seem to be unnecessarily smoothed or blurred.
rther points:
e time resolution of the numerical solver is not larger than observed lag times. Isn’t this a problem? What
es prevent one to use an order of magnitude difference, e.g. a resolution of 0.001 s for the solver?
hese weaknesses are partly linked to the specific nature of the chaotic dynamics being used in the slave,
ich can diverge in value very quickly when subject to external influence”: Is this correct? The chaotic
e scale of this attractor is much longer than the prediction time used here. Essentially, the chaoticity of
motion shows up only after several round-trips through phase space, for example in the maximum-to-
ximum map of the z-coordinate. Otherwise, the trajectories are smooth and pretty predictable. I would
ume that the same effects would be observed in non-chaotic systems with some form of non-trivial
jectories, for example the superposition of several sinusoids.
ure 15: “… while the unmodified serial system shows a negligible response.” -> response lag?
gree that it is important to distinguish between AS and the Smith predictor, as the authors do in the
roduction. However, I do not understand the sentence “However, the output of the controlled object
eady contains this information, since it is driven by the slave's output.” Is “controlled object” and “slave”
re the same system?
ould replace “weakness” with “limitation”; every method has certain limitations of applicability, but it
es not mean that it is “weak” per se.
ere is a recent related, but somewhat different, explanation for human delayed feedback tracking
periments: H.U. Voss & N. Stepp, A negative group delay model for feedback-delayed manual tracking
rformance, Journal of Computational Neuroscience, 41, 295 – 304 (2016). Preprint:
ps://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/1606/1606.06571.pdf . Not sure if needs to be mentioned, though. Just
I.
nning
pendix B
Response to Referee’s Comments
nk you for taking the time to give us such a comprehensive review. We have made an
nsive series of changes to our manuscript as a result, which we hope will go some way to
gating your concerns. The following is an itemised list of your comments as we identified
, followed by our responses and, where appropriate, copies of the revised text and
res.
1. This is an interesting contribution but, although from within this field, I have
difficulty to understand it. I assume this is mostly due to lack of clarity in the
description and quality of presentation, mostly the figures. In order to be publishable,
the manuscript needs to be clear even to people not from this field, so there is
something to do in order to make this possible. In the following, these problems are
detailed. However, I would recommend even after having addressed my specific
comments, the authors take a step back and think of how in general the manuscript
could be made more accessible for non-experts in this specific field of application.
<U+F0B7> First of all, thank you for your helpful comments. We have made significant
changes throughout the paper, but in particular to the introduction, discussion
and conclusion. Hopefully these will improve the readability of our
manuscript and the clarity of the messages we wish to convey.
2. In general, I have difficulties to understand the differences between the different
approaches and how they relate to delayed tracking experiments. In the tracking
experiments, there is an artificial feedback delay, but not an artificial sensory delay.
To clarify, maybe all delay terms in the manuscript should be labelled whether they
are feedback or sensory delays, also in the block diagrams. In the same sense, Figures
2 and 4 do not fit together; in Figure 4, the leftmost delay is a sensory delay but it is
outside of the feedback loop, whereas in Figure 4 the sensory delays are inside. Later,
in section 2.2., things are specified further. I have the feeling that re-structuring the
manuscript already could clarify things a bit.
<U+F0B7> This was a mistake on our part: were some errors in Figure 4 that made it
inconsistent with the other block diagrams. We have updated the block
diagrams so that there is a coherent visual structure linking these figures.
<U+F0B7> Fig 4:
<U+F0B7> Fig 11:
3. “These weaknesses are partly linked to the specific nature of the chaotic dynamics
being used in the slave, which can diverge in value very quickly when subject to
external influence”: Is this correct? The chaotic time scale of this attractor is much
longer than the prediction time used here. Essentially, the chaoticity of the motion
shows up only after several round-trips through phase space, for example in the
maximum-to maximum map of the z-coordinate. Otherwise, the trajectories are
smooth and pretty predictable. I would assume that the same effects would be
observed in non-chaotic systems with some form of non-trivial trajectories, for
example the superposition of several sinusoids.
<U+F0B7> This was a comment specifically on the slave’s stability. Since the slave is
composed the robot dynamics and those of the target (a Rössler oscillator), it
is affected by the Rössler system’s sensitivity to initial conditions. When an
impulse is applied to the plant, the sensory coupling is also disturbed, and this
sensitivity causes the slave to become unstable.
<U+F0B7> “This limitation is linked to the sensitivity to initial conditions of the chaotic
dynamics that represent the target in the slave. These diverge exponentially
from the target's actual movement when the plant, and thus the sensory
coupling, is disturbed. It would be possible to achieve anticipation using less-
sensitive dynamics to represent the target within the slave, but these would no
longer match the target dynamics and thus limit both the anticipation period
and accuracy that can be achieved, resembling more the performance of the
parallel system.”
4. After “The sensory coupling is used in two different ways, distinguished by the nature
of the slave…” another block diagram would be useful to better understand the
distinctions made. Also, for the parallel approach, there is no block diagram?
<U+F0B7> This statement is not clear; we have re-written the introduction and section 3
to make this clearer. Figure 4 is intended to depict the parallel approach -
hopefully this will also be more visible due to our revisions.
<U+F0B7> “We test our hypothesis by using a simulated robot (modelled in Simulink) to
perform a tracking task in the presence of delay. Because of the challenges
specific to this application, namely that the plant can only be controlled by a
torque signal that is defined in a different coordinate system to the target,
there are restrictions on how this coupling can be applied. Nonetheless, we
believe we identified the two most plausible systems.
The `parallel' system couples the plant itself to an internal model that encodes
the `normal' response of the control loop without delays. With both the model
and plant tracking the same target, the plant synchronises with the future state
of the model, anticipating by a sufficient amount to counteract the delays in
the real system.
The `serial' system treats the moving target as the master, with an internal
model predicting its motion. The control signal that corresponds to this
predicted target is calculated and used to control the plant. The output of the
plant, subject to the real system delays, forms the `slave' part of the sensory
coupling and ensures the degree of anticipation is always appropriate. In both
of these cases, anticipation cannot occur without continuous interaction with
the real target and plant, fulfilling on a basic level the requirements of strong
anticipation.”
5. When the authors say “body (plant)”, do they mean the human body? Maybe it would
be better first to mention that “plant” in the following could be the human body or an
artificial plant (if I understand it correctly) and then continue with plant only.
<U+F0B7> We have altered the text to eliminate this ambiguity: “body” is now only used
where we specifically refer to the human body (as part of the inspiration for
the design of the systems), while all other instances are referred to as the plant
(or the “true plant” when making the distinction with a dynamical model of
the model).
6. “This was chosen as a system that is highly nonlinear and difficult to predict in order
to discount trivial `anticipation' due to simply overshooting the target”: What does
this mean? How would an overshooting model look like specifically? Would
overshooting cause apparent anticipation by means of cross-correlation with negative
lag, too, and if yes, why is it to be avoided? If these questions cannot be easily
answered, maybe it is better not to mention ‘overshooting.’
<U+F0B7> This was over-conservative language. There was some concern that the
simulated robot arm, if underdamped, could precede the motion of a
sinusoidal target along one axis, masking the effect of the coupling we had
designed. This effect was never observed, and in any case is not relevant to
the work as presented, so we are happy to remove this statement.
7. In Figure 5, if anticipation is represented by negative color (blue), then I only see lag
for large tau_f, but no anticipation. I am very confused by that figure. Also, it is
unfortunate to use ‘green’ both for small lead and lag. One clearly cannot distinguish,
based on color, what is lead and lag. The color scale should have a discontinuity at
zero to make it meaningful.
<U+F0B7> This is a valid criticism of our choice of colour mapping. To make these
figures more readable, we have altered the false colour mapping such that all
negative lags are represented by shades of blue, while all positive lags grade
from yellow to red. The new versions of figures 6 and 12 are inserted below to
demonstrate this:
8. I agree that it is important to distinguish between AS and the Smith predictor, as the
authors do in the introduction. However, I do not understand the sentence “However,
the output of the controlled object already contains this information, since it is driven
by the slave's output.” Is “controlled object” and “slave” here the same system?
<U+F0B7> Sorry, this was a poorly phrased expression of the idea that if a dynamical
system is created to act as the predictive slave, and its state is used to drive the
control of the true plant, the plant’s output is now a transformed, delayed
version of the slave’s output. Therefore, there should be no need to use a
delayed copy of the slave’s state as feedback, because it can be derived from
the plant. After rewriting the introduction with reference to earlier comments,
this sentence is no longer included, but we have added a paragraph that we
believe clarifies the concept more.
<U+F0B7> “We hypothesise that a control scheme based directly on the strong
anticipation principle and utilising AS can be designed by coupling a correctly
designed dynamical model to the real output of the plant through the sensors -
a sensory coupling. Because the sensed output of the plant is subject to both,
the delays introduced by the plant itself (feedback delay,<U+0001D70F><U+0001D453> ), and those that
result from sensory processing (sensory delay, t), the anticipation period will
always be equal to the true delay within the system. The logic of this principle
is similar to that of `signal bouncing' [14], which avoids modelling network
delay by `bouncing' the output of a predictive model through the delaying
channel itself.
9. The time resolution of the numerical solver is not larger than observed lag times. Isn’t
this a problem? What does prevent one to use an order of magnitude difference, e.g. a
resolution of 0.001 s for the solver?
<U+F0B7> This was primarily a choice to save simulation time, although we did confirm
beforehand that a higher time resolution did not qualitatively change (or, more
specifically, ‘improve’) the results. We do agree that a higher time resolution
would increase the credibility of our conclusions, so we have increased the
time resolution of the simulations used to produce our results to 0.001s.
10. I would replace “weakness” with “limitation”; every method has certain limitations of
applicability, but it does not mean that it is “weak” per se.
<U+F0B7> Thank you for this helpful suggestion; we have corrected the wording
throughout the manuscript.
11. All 2D color plots seem to be unnecessarily smoothed or blurred.
<U+F0B7> The color plots were interpolated in order to remove visible grid lines from the
MATLAB figures. We have switched to a different plotting function that does
not produce grid lines, as well as increasing the resolution, so the colour plots
should no longer appear blurry (as you can see in our response to comment 7).
12. Figure 8: I neither see the mentioned sharp peaks in the target's motion, nor any
oscillations of the effector.
<U+F0B7> We are sorry; this was a reference to a specific feature in the time series for
which “sharp peaks” was a lazy description. We have increased the resolution
of the figure (now figure 7), changed the description and added an inset
comparison showing the feature in question, and the difference in response
<U+F0B7> “Figure 7: X-axis movement of the target (blue, solid line) and the end effector
of the parallel system plant with K = 0.3 (green, dashed line), which must
track it. t = 0.1 s before rising to 0.3 s at the 300 s point. The increase in t
causes the end effector to oscillate more after non-sinusoidal moments of the
target (compare inset figures a and b), but does not cause a proportionate
increase in lag.”
13. There is a recent related, but somewhat different, explanation for human delayed
feedback tracking experiments: H.U. Voss & N. Stepp, A negative group delay model
for feedback-delayed manual tracking performance, Journal of Computational
Neuroscience, 41, 295 – 304 (2016). Preprint:
https://arxiv.org/ftp/arxiv/papers/1606/1606.06571.pdf . Not sure if needs to be
mentioned, though. Just FYI.
<U+F0B7> Thank you for bringing this to our attention – since it is relevant to some of the
conclusions we make in the course of the manuscript, we have included
citations to this paper in our introduction (section 1) and general discussion
(section 5)
Society Open
