Food provisioning increases the risk of injury in a long-lived
marine top predator
Fredrik Christiansen, Katherine A. McHugh, Lars Bejder, Eilidh M. Siegal, David Lusseau,
Elizabeth Berens McCabe, Gretchen Lovewell and Randall S. Wells
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160560.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160560
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 September 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 22 November 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 November 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160560.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Bernd Wursig)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a very valuable paper, as it allows inter-generational assessments of provisioning in a
long-lived marine mammal. We finally have good information on how this may be affecting
health, well-being, and aspects of survivorship. I have no comments to improve the paper.
Bernd Würsig
TX A&M University
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is an interesting and novel study that should make an important contribution to the
literature.
However, there are a few points that I think it would be useful to clarify, and I do question
whether the analyses presented here fully justify the title and certain conclusions. Nevertheless, I
think that can be resolved through relatively minor changes.
1. The title focuses on food provisioning and its influence on injury and mortality.
However, the suite of behaviours used to identify “conditioned” animals are broader than this,
and the use of food provisioning in the title may be misleading. Similarly, the link to mortality
risk initially suggests that analyses have specifically looked at change in survival, which they
have not. In contrast, the title does not capture what I would argue was the key result – that the
probability of conditioning was related to association with conditioned animals. I suggest this
should be changed to better reflect the key analyses.
3
2. Line 43. Whilst provisioning in relation to wildlife recreation and tourism may be
increasing, is there really evidence of a global increase in all forms of provisioning – or is this just
changes in awareness in these particular marine systems. In other systems there have been
enormous reductions, for example in relation to scavenging birds on rubbish tips or sea ducks on
sewage outfalls.
3. Building upon the first point, interpretation of some of the included behaviours is
potentially more equivocal than others – particularly patrolling and proximity to boats (which
may also co-vary with boat density to some extent). I think it’s important to have an additional
analysis that confirms that the increase in conditioned animals was not just being driven by an
increase in one or two of these behaviours (particularly those that might be most subject to
observer bias in the later period when there was recognition that provisioning may be
increasing). Specifically – how does the trend look if you just consider scavenging, depredation,
begging and provisioning.
4. It was unclear why a cumulative curve was used to illustrate the increase in conditioned
animals in Fig 2. This would be more convincing if the increasing trend was obvious when using
the number of conditioned animals observed in each year or the % of animals observed in each
year that were conditioned. It would also be valuable to have some discussion to confirm that the
level of conditioning did not affect sighting probability.
5. How many of the individual trends in Figure 2 are significant? Perhaps this could be
shown I supplementary data, and only significant results shown in the Figure. The reader needs
convincing this is not just noise.
6. I had to dig into the supplementary material quite a lot for general information on some
of the methodological approaches. For example, the main text would benefit from a brief
overview of how exposure was estimated by overlapping spatially explicit CMR analyses with
locally collected data on human activity – and then give the detail in supplementary data. Some
sections of the supplementary data could also have provided greater detail, particularly
descriptions of the injury types (with illustrations perhaps?).
7. The probability of injury seems to be largely driven by age (Fig 6) – and the best model
(including both age and all measures of conditioning) only explains 9% of the deviance. Given the
link between injury and mortality is based entirely on previous work, this further suggest the title
focusses on one of the weaker and less novel aspects of the paper?
8. Line 352-355. It’s not clear what specific results these lines are referring to?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160560)
11-Nov-2016
Dear Dr Christiansen
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160560 entitled
"Food provisioning increases the risk of injury and mortality in a long-lived marine top predator"
has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
4
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160560
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
5
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 20-Nov-2016). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
This is a nice paper and if the authors address the relatively straightforward issues raised by the
second referee, it would be acceptable for publication.
On line 35 (Abstract), I suggest the wording be changed to "provisioning may lead to a decrease
in survival" - not "can lead". You haven't produced survival data to show that it actually does
(and I note that Referee 2 also makes this point).
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This is a very valuable paper, as it allows inter-generational assessments of provisioning in a
long-lived marine mammal. We finally have good information on how this may be affecting
health, well-being, and aspects of survivorship. I have no comments to improve the paper.
Bernd Würsig
TX A&M University
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
This is an interesting and novel study that should make an important contribution to the
literature.
However, there are a few points that I think it would be useful to clarify, and I do question
whether the analyses presented here fully justify the title and certain conclusions. Nevertheless, I
think that can be resolved through relatively minor changes.
1. The title focuses on food provisioning and its influence on injury and mortality.
However, the suite of behaviours used to identify “conditioned” animals are broader than this,
and the use of food provisioning in the title may be misleading. Similarly, the link to mortality
risk initially suggests that analyses have specifically looked at change in survival, which they
have not. In contrast, the title does not capture what I would argue was the key result – that the
probability of conditioning was related to association with conditioned animals. I suggest this
should be changed to better reflect the key analyses.
2. Line 43. Whilst provisioning in relation to wildlife recreation and tourism may be
increasing, is there really evidence of a global increase in all forms of provisioning – or is this just
changes in awareness in these particular marine systems. In other systems there have been
enormous reductions, for example in relation to scavenging birds on rubbish tips or sea ducks on
sewage outfalls.
3. Building upon the first point, interpretation of some of the included behaviours is
potentially more equivocal than others – particularly patrolling and proximity to boats (which
may also co-vary with boat density to some extent). I think it’s important to have an additional
analysis that confirms that the increase in conditioned animals was not just being driven by an
increase in one or two of these behaviours (particularly those that might be most subject to
observer bias in the later period when there was recognition that provisioning may be
increasing). Specifically – how does the trend look if you just consider scavenging, depredation,
begging and provisioning.
4. It was unclear why a cumulative curve was used to illustrate the increase in conditioned
animals in Fig 2. This would be more convincing if the increasing trend was obvious when using
7
the number of conditioned animals observed in each year or the % of animals observed in each
year that were conditioned. It would also be valuable to have some discussion to confirm that the
level of conditioning did not affect sighting probability.
5. How many of the individual trends in Figure 2 are significant? Perhaps this could be
shown I supplementary data, and only significant results shown in the Figure. The reader needs
convincing this is not just noise.
6. I had to dig into the supplementary material quite a lot for general information on some
of the methodological approaches. For example, the main text would benefit from a brief
overview of how exposure was estimated by overlapping spatially explicit CMR analyses with
locally collected data on human activity – and then give the detail in supplementary data. Some
sections of the supplementary data could also have provided greater detail, particularly
descriptions of the injury types (with illustrations perhaps?).
7. The probability of injury seems to be largely driven by age (Fig 6) – and the best model
(including both age and all measures of conditioning) only explains 9% of the deviance. Given the
link between injury and mortality is based entirely on previous work, this further suggest the title
focusses on one of the weaker and less novel aspects of the paper?
8. Line 352-355. It’s not clear what specific results these lines are referring to?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160560)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160560.R1)
22-Nov-2016
Dear Dr Christiansen,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Food provisioning increases the risk of
injury in a long-lived marine top predator" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
8
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open Science (RSOS-160560)
General comments:
We are very thankful to the editors and the two reviewers for their fair and constructive
criticism of the manuscript. A point by point description of the changes we have made to the
manuscript can be found below. Thank you very much for your time and effort in reviewing
this manuscript. We hope that you find this new version to be improved and a valuable
contribution to Royal Society Open Science.
Best regards,
Fredrik Christiansen
Answers to the editors comments:
COMMENT: On line 35 (Abstract), I suggest the wording be changed to "provisioning may
lead to a decrease in survival" - not "can lead". You haven't produced survival data to show
that it actually does (and I note that Referee 2 also makes this point).
REPLY: We agree with the editor and have changed “can lead” to “may lead”
Answers to the first reviewer’s comments:
COMMENT: This is a very valuable paper, as it allows inter-generational assessments of
provisioning in a long-lived marine mammal. We finally have good information on how this
may be affecting health, well-being, and aspects of survivorship. I have no comments to
improve the paper.
REPLY: We thank Bernt Würsig for reviewing this paper and for recommending it for
publication.
Answers to the second reviewers comments:
COMMENT: 1. The title focuses on food provisioning and its influence on injury and
mortality. However, the suite of behaviours used to identify “conditioned” animals are
broader than this, and the use of food provisioning in the title may be misleading. Similarly,
the link to mortality risk initially suggests that analyses have specifically looked at change in
survival, which they have not. In contrast, the title does not capture what I would argue was
the key result – that the probability of conditioning was related to association with
conditioned animals. I suggest this should be changed to better reflect the key analyses.
REPLY: We agree with the reviewer and have changed the title to:
“Food provisioning increases the risk of injury in a long-lived marine top predator”
We would like to keep the focus of the title on our finding that conditioned dolphins were
more likely to be injured than unconditioned dolphins, because this is a novel finding that has
not been shown before for dolphins. The association with conditioned dolphins have been
found in other studies to affect the probability of conditioning, so that is not a novel finding,
although still very interesting and important.
COMMENT: 2. Line 43. Whilst provisioning in relation to wildlife recreation and tourism
or is this just changes in awareness in these particular marine systems. In other systems there
have been enormous reductions, for example in relation to scavenging birds on rubbish tips or
sea ducks on sewage outfalls.
REPLY: While we agree with the reviewer that many measures have been made to reduce
indirect food provisioning of wildlife, human food waste production is still increasing
globally as a consequence of growing human population size. To better highlight this in the
text we revised the sentence to (page 2, lines 42-45):
“The occurrence of wildlife provisioning is increasing globally as a consequence of an
increase in human food waste production and the frequency of human-wildlife interactions
[1–3], both the result of human population growth.”
COMMENT: 3. Building upon the first point, interpretation of some of the included
behaviours is potentially more equivocal than others – particularly patrolling and proximity to
boats (which may also co-vary with boat density to some extent). I think it’s important to
have an additional analysis that confirms that the increase in conditioned animals was not just
being driven by an increase in one or two of these behaviours (particularly those that might
be most subject to observer bias in the later period when there was recognition that
provisioning may be increasing). Specifically – how does the trend look if you just consider
scavenging, depredation, begging and provisioning.
REPLY: We respectfully disagree with the reviewer. Although we do find the same trend in
number of conditioned dolphins over time when excluding patrolled and fixed gear
interactions (see figure below), we do not considered these two behaviours to be more
equivocal than others. Patrolling (44.0%) and fixed gear interactions (31.9%) are the two
most commonly observed behaviours indicative of conditioning in Sarasota Bay. This is not
surprising since these two behaviours often precede other conditioning behaviours, such as
scavenging, depredation and provisioning. Patrolling and fixed gear interactions can also
occur over longer time periods (several minutes), and are therefore more likely to be
observed, compared to scavenging, depredation and provisioning, which are instantaneous.
Nevertheless, all these behaviours are indicative of conditioning in dolphins, as shown by a
number of studies, both in Sarasota (Powell and Wells 2011) and elsewhere (Finn et al. 2008;
Donaldson et al. 2012). If patrolling and fixed gear interactions were part of the natural
behavioural repertoire of Sarasota dolphins, or part of some other human induced behaviour,
they would not have increased over time as we observed. The reviewer argues that patrolling
and fixed gear interactions could perhaps co-vary with boat density; however boat density
(i.e. number of registered boats in the area) did not co-vary with the number of conditioned
dolphins, so that is unlikely to be a confounding factor. Hence we have decided to stick with
our initial figure and definition of conditioning, which includes patrolling and fixed gear
interactions. We hope that the editor and reviewer agree with this decision.
conditioned animals in Fig 2. This would be more convincing if the increasing trend was
obvious when using the number of conditioned animals observed in each year or the % of
animals observed in each year that were conditioned. It would also be valuable to have some
discussion to confirm that the level of conditioning did not affect sighting probability.
REPLY: The purpose of Fig. 2 was to show the number of animals that became conditioned
each year through the study. The y-axis hence represents the absolute number of conditioned
dolphins recorded through the study and clearly shows that the rate of conditioning increased
over the study, especially after 2005. The reason for showing the population size as well was
to show that the increase in conditioned dolphins was not caused by an increase in population
size (the curves have different slopes and the cumulative curve also increases more sharply
after 2005). If we instead had shown the number of conditioned dolphins observed each year
as a percentage of the overall number of dolphins seen that year (as suggested by the
reviewer), the reader would not be able to see the rate of conditioning. Since the aim of this
paper was to investigate what factors contribute to dolphins becoming conditioned, showing
the actual number of dolphins that became conditioned in a given year made sense. Having
said that, the reviewer is correct in stating that the figure does not show the % of conditioned
dolphins in relation to the total population size. To make this clear to the reader, the
following text was added to the figure legend of Fig. 2 (page 28, lines 662-664):
“Observe that the cumulative number of conditioned dolphins does not account for
conditioned animals that died during the study.”
COMMENT: 5. How many of the individual trends in Figure 2 are significant? Perhaps this
could be shown in supplementary data, and only significant results shown in the Figure. The
reader needs convincing this is not just noise.
REPLY: We agree with the reviewer’s suggestion that showing the significance of these
trends would be valuable. However the sample size for individual dolphins was too small to
provide reliable statistical values. Moreover, the purpose of the figure was to highlight the
large variation observed in the proportion of time that individual dolphins engaged in HI
events. To avoid noise resulting from sampling bias we only included dolphins that were
sighted at least 10 times in a given year. Still that sample size is too small to provide narrow
enough confidence intervals to determine the significance of the different slope parameters.
COMMENT: 6. I had to dig into the supplementary material quite a lot for general
information on some of the methodological approaches. For example, the main text would
benefit from a brief overview of how exposure was estimated by overlapping spatially
explicit CMR analyses with locally collected data on human activity – and then give the
detail in supplementary data. Some sections of the supplementary data could also have
provided greater detail, particularly descriptions of the injury types (with illustrations
perhaps?).
REPLY: We appreciate the reviewer’s feedback and have added more description to the
methods section describing how exposure and association with conditioned dolphins was
estimated (pages 9-10, lines 217-229):
“EXP was estimated for each individual dolphin for 2013 and 2014 by overlapping individual
dolphin encounter probabilities with human intensity data in the study area (see the electronic
supplementary material) [45,46]. Dolphin encounter probabilities were estimated using
spatially explicit capture-recapture (SECR) models, whilst human intensity data (density of
boats, crab pots and fishing line) was recorded during dolphin surveys (see the electronic
supplementary material). EXP represents the average per minute probability of an animal
being exposed to any type of human activity (number of boats, crab pots and fishing lines) in
Donaldson et al. [16], who used the half-weight association index [47] to quantify the number
of times two individual dolphins were sighted together in a year relative to how often they
were sighted separately (see the electronic supplementary material). COA provides a relative
measure of association with conditioned animals, ranging from 0 (no association with
conditioned animals) to 1 (association only with conditioned animals).”
We also added another paragraph into the “Presence of injuries” section of the supplementary
materials describing the injury types (page 3, lines 46-52):
“Injury types were categorized after Wells et al. [7]. For example, cases of fishing gear
entanglement or ingestion were based upon observations of hooks, lures, monofilament or
braided fishing line, or crab trap float lines present on or embedded in free-ranging animals or
recovered carcasses, or from scarring patterns consistent with wounds from lines. Vessel
strike cases were based on the presence of deep, parallel, evenly spaced cuts presumably
caused by boat propellers or skegs and/or evidence of severe blunt force trauma.“
Since all of these are described in more details in Wells et al. 2008, we added a reference to
that paper.
COMMENT: 7. The probability of injury seems to be largely driven by age (Fig 6) – and the
best model (including both age and all measures of conditioning) only explains 9% of the
deviance. Given the link between injury and mortality is based entirely on previous work, this
further suggest the title focusses on one of the weaker and less novel aspects of the paper?
REPLY: We disagree with the reviewer that age is the main driver of the probability of injury
in dolphins. The effect of conditioning on the probability of injury is equally, if not more
important than age. For example, for a 30 year old dolphin, the probability of injury is only
10 percent units higher than for a 1 year old dolphin, whereas if the dolphin was conditioned
this probability would be 20 percent units higher. It is true that the model is only explaining
9% of the deviance in the data, however for an ecological study that is still pretty high.
Having said that, we do agree with the reviewer that concluding that mortality in dolphin will
increase as a consequence of conditioning is not directly supported by our data. Therefore we
have removed mortality from the title of this paper:
“Food provisioning increases the risk of injury in a long-lived marine top predator”
As mentioned before, we would like to keep the focus of the title on our finding that
conditioned dolphins were more likely to be injured than unconditioned dolphins, because
this is a novel finding that has not been shown before for dolphins.
COMMENT: 8. Line 352-355. It’s not clear what specific results these lines are referring to?
REPLY: This comment refers to section 3.4. “Variables affecting the number of conditioned
dolphins”. To make this clearer in the text, we added a reference to this section in the text
(page 15, lines 359-362):
“Similarly, although association with conditioned animals was found to influence the
probability of a dolphin becoming conditioned, when looking at the total number of
conditioned dolphins in a given year, the average COA with conditioned animals had no
effect (see section 3.4).”
Society Open
