Kinship as a frequency-dependent strategy
Ting Ji, Xiu-Deng Zheng, Qiao-Qiao He, Jia-Jia Wu, Ruth Mace and Yi Tao
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150632.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150632
Review timeline
Original submission: 17 November 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 21 January 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 January 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150632.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Ryan Ellsworth)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Ryan Ellsworth, Department of Anthropology and Sociology, Webster University
The paper provides a useful demonstration of the utility of evolutionary game theoretic models
to understanding empirically observed trends in human social dynamics. Below are some general
comments that the authors should consider during revision.
The paper needs to be edited for grammar and clarity in some places.
I suggest that the paper be reorganized to present the abstract evolutionary models and results
first, followed by the ethnographic data to provide empirical demonstration of the applicability of
game theoretic models to changes in descent and residence patterns. This will make it easier for
the reader to see how the ethnographic data on changes in kinship and residence correspond to
the predictions and results of the aforementioned models.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Good paper. Needs a bit of copy-editing (eg "other sexes" -> "other sex's" p.6). Maybe consider
adding a paragraph of basic ethnography on the Mosu and other SW China groups for those
unfamiliar.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150632)
12-Jan-2016
Dear Dr Mace
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150632 entitled
"Kinship as a frequency dependent strategy." has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find
the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150632
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
4
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 21-Jan-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Matthew Allinson
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150632)
See Appendix A.
Revisions on Royal Society Open Science paper ‘Kinship as a frequency dependent strategy’
Manuscript number RSOS-150632.
Response to Referees
Reviewer 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Good paper. Needs a bit of copy-editing (eg "other sexes" -> "other sex's" p.6). Maybe consider
adding a paragraph of basic ethnography on the Mosu and other SW China groups for those
unfamiliar.
Reply:We thank reviewer 1 for reviews and suggestions. We have checked through the whole
manuscript for any spelling and grammar mistakes. We have added basic ethnography on Mosuo
and Pumi in SW China in the Manuscript as reviewer suggested:
Page 8 for Mosuo ‘The Mosuo (also known as the Na) inhabit strips of farmland near and around
the shores of Lugu Lake in the border between Sichuan and Yunnan Province in south-western
China. Diets used to be supplemented by fishing and hunting, but wildlife resources are now
depleted. The group is related to Pumi, Tibetans, and Naxi and speaks a Tibeto-Burman language.
Mosuo families live in larger matrilineal households of three generations of brothers and sisters
and the matrilineal offspring. The wives and children of the males reside elsewhere with their
matrilineal kin. The marriage system is often described as ‘walking’ or ‘visiting marriage’, that is,
both women and men are still living in their natal households after marriage, men visit their wives
at night and return in the morning. Thus there are usually several co-resident breeding women in
Mosuo households; they are breeding communally in the sense that they cooperate with child-
care, domestic and farm labour, and share all the household resources [11].’
And same page for Pumi ‘Pumi is aother ethnic group who speak Tibeto-Burman language in
Yunnan and Sichuan Province, south-western China. The total population is about 30,000. There
are two branches of Pumi, based on the dialects, the southern Pumi mainly live in Lanping,
Yunnan and northern Pumi, live in Ninglang, Yunnan, the same area as Mosuo [38].’
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Ryan Ellsworth, Department of Anthropology and Sociology, Webster University
The paper provides a useful demonstration of the utility of evolutionary game theoretic models
to understanding empirically observed trends in human social dynamics. Below are some general
comments that the authors should consider during revision.
The paper needs to be edited for grammar and clarity in some places.
for any grammar mistakes and points to be clarified.
I suggest that the paper be reorganized to present the abstract evolutionary models and results
first, followed by the ethnographic data to provide empirical demonstration of the applicability of
game theoretic models to changes in descent and residence patterns. This will make it easier
for the reader to see how the ethnographic data on changes in kinship and residence correspond
to the predictions and results of the aforementioned models.
Reply:We thank reviewer 2 for the suggestion. In fact in an earlier version of our draft, we did
put the model results first and followed by the ethnographic data. But after many discussions, we
decided to change the order in later version. The reason we did so is because the point we are
trying to make is that we have noticed the phenomenon of dispersal norms and kinship norms
changes, and thought it can be explained by the evolutionary game theoretic models, rather than
we developed a game theoretical model of dispersal norms, and found real world cases can be
used to test the model predictions. We feel it is smoother and more logical to start the paper by
describing the phenomenon, then present the models results and predictions, and finally combine
the ethnographic data and model predictions together. In Figure 3c, we have used a and ß to show
how the empirical data on changes in kinship and residence correspond to the predictions and
results of the models. In the end we found it more natural to describe the phenomena, and use the
model by way of an explanation, and hence the order.
Besides the above revisions, we added a reference on page 5 line 2 (Cant and Johnstone 2008).
Yours truly,
Ruth Mace
Society Open
