Influence of shear stress magnitude and direction on
atherosclerotic plaque composition
Ryan M. Pedrigi, Vikram V. Mehta, Sandra M. Bovens, Zahra Mohri, Christian Bo Poulsen,
Willy Gsell, Jordi L. Tremoleda, Leila Towhidi, Ranil de Silva, Enrico Petretto and Rob
Krams
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160588.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160588
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 August 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 18 September 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 September 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160588.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is reviewer 3. The paper reads much better and is well structured now. I still have two minor
comments and a concern regarding one of my former questions.
Comment:
- Fig. 2b still lacks the legend and Colormap
- Use a more recent reference rather than 34.
Concern regarding my Question 4.:
Now that you have very well discussed the importance of each metric, it is more clear why they
should have quantified for all 14 arteries. However, despite explaining the importance of each
specific metric, their outcome for the experiments, their interpretation and use for this research
are NOT discussed at all. For instance, RRT and tSS were introduced in methods and just
mentioned to be increased/decreased in results part. What is the conclusion? Why don't you
discuss about these metrics and how they are beneficial for this work? Same holds for most of
other metrics except the common OSI and WSS. My question in previous review was not
answered at all. The added paragraph in the discussion part solely introduces metrics, and does
not interpret and discuss the significance, use and benefit of those metrics for this research.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
My questions are addressed now
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160588)
02-Sep-2016
Dear Dr Pedrigi,
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160588 entitled
"Influence of shear stress magnitude and direction on atherosclerotic plaque composition" has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript, which they feel have not been addressed in the manuscript
transferrd to RSOS. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160588
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
4
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 11-Sep-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Katrin Rittinger
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This is reviewer 3. The paper reads much better and is well structured now. I still have two minor
comments and a concern regarding one of my former questions.
Comment:
- Fig. 2b still lacks the legend and Colormap
- Use a more recent reference rather than 34.
Concern regarding my Question 4.:
Now that you have very well discussed the importance of each metric, it is more clear why they
should have quantified for all 14 arteries. However, despite explaining the importance of each
specific metric, their outcome for the experiments, their interpretation and use for this research
are NOT discussed at all. For instance, RRT and tSS were introduced in methods and just
mentioned to be increased/decreased in results part. What is the conclusion? Why don't you
discuss about these metrics and how they are beneficial for this work? Same holds for most of
other metrics except the common OSI and WSS. My question in previous review was not
answered at all. The added paragraph in the discussion part solely introduces metrics, and does
not interpret and discuss the significance, use and benefit of those metrics for this research.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
My questions are addressed now
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160588)
See Appendix A.
pendix A
sponse to Reviewers
are very pleased that we have previously addressed most of the reviewers’
cerns. All reviewers gave great feedback that led to a substantially revised
nuscript, resubmitted to Royal Society Open Science. We would also like to
ticularly thank Reviewer 3 for their meticulous re-read of our re-submitted manuscript
d identification of a few more points for improvement. We have now addressed these
nts as detailed below in red. Changes to the paper are highlighted.
viewer 1:
mments to the Author(s)
s is reviewer 3. The paper reads much better and is well structured now.
eat, we are happy to hear that!
ill have two minor comments and a concern regarding one of my former questions.
mment:
g. 2b still lacks the legend and Colormap
anks very much for pointing this out – we had the colormap in our original
mission, but it somehow got dropped out when we developed the new versions of
figure for the previous submission. We have now re-added the colormap (and label).
e legend for all parts of Figure 2 (a, b, c) was correctly included in the last submission
d remains unchanged for this submission.
se a more recent reference rather than 34.
have replaced reference 34 (Knight et al., 2010) with two references: (1) Rikhtegar
al., 2012 and (2) De Wilde et al., 2016.
ncern regarding my Question 4.:
w that you have very well discussed the importance of each metric, it is more clear
y they should have quantified for all 14 arteries. However, despite explaining the
ortance of each specific metric, their outcome for the experiments, their
rpretation and use for this research are NOT discussed at all. For instance, RRT
d tSS were introduced in methods and just mentioned to be increased/decreased in
ults part. What is the conclusion? Why don't you discuss about these metrics and
w they are beneficial for this work? Same holds for most of other metrics except the
mmon OSI and WSS. My question in previous review was not answered at all. The
ded paragraph in the discussion part solely introduces metrics, and does not interpret
d discuss the significance, use and benefit of those metrics for this research.
anks, this is a good point. Although this is more of a descriptive study, we agree that
etter interpretation of the results would be beneficial. We have now expanded our
cussion towards this end (new paragraphs 4 to 6), including a Conclusion section.
viewer: 2
mments to the Author(s)
questions are addressed now
eat!
Society Open
