Curcumin improves glycolipid metabolism through
regulating peroxisome proliferator activated receptor <U+F067>
signalling pathway in high-fat diet-induced obese mice and
3T3-L1 adipocytes
Yanyun Pan, Dandan Zhao, Na Yu, Tian An, Jianan Miao, Fangfang Mo, Yujie Gu,
Dongwei Zhang, Sihua Gao and Guangjian Jiang
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170917.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170917
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 July 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 20 September 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 5 October 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170917.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Manuscript title:
“Curcumin improves glycolipid metabolism through regulating PPAR<U+03B3> signaling pathway in
high-fat diet induced obese mice and 3T3-L1 adipocytes”
Comments:
This original article has evaluated the effects of curcumin on glycolipid metabolism through
regulating PPAR<U+03B3> signaling pathway in high-fat diet induced obese mice and 3T3-L1
adipocytes.
Please consider my suggestions:
• The article appears to be understandable to readers.
• HDL and LDL should be rewritten as HDL-C (high dence lipoproteine cholesterol) and LDL-C
(low dence lipoproteine cholesterol) all the text long.
• It is necessary that the author conform the manuscript as mentioned in Instructions to Authors.
• Authors should add the number of the mice used in each group all the text figures.
• Authors should add the explanations of abbreviations whenever used first time all the text long
.For example what is the "WAT", it must be as: the white adipose tissue (WAT) for the first time.
• Authors should discuss the limitation of the present study.
• Please add some other related papers to discission such as: Zhou, Yajun, et al. "The interruption
of the PDGF and EGF signaling pathways by curcumin stimulates gene expression of PPAR
[gamma] in rat activated hepatic stellate cell in vitro." Laboratory investigation 87.5 (2007): 488.
So, we recommend this article for publication in the Royal Society Open Science after revision
including mentioned comments.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Pan et al. examined the effects of a traditional Chinese herbal medicine, curcumin, in regulating
glycolipid metabolism in both mouse and adipocyte cell culture models. The authors observed
that administration of curcumin reduced body weight, lowed the blood glucose and serum lipid
profiles and improved insulin sensitivity in obese mice induced by high fat diet. Moreover, the
authors also observed PPARr signaling signature changes under curcumin administration in both
obese mice and 3T3-L1 cells, which is depending on the doses of curcumin. Based on these
observations the authors conclude that curcumin may hold treatment potential for obesity and
diabetes. Overall the presented data were supportive to the major conclusions but there are some
concerns need to be addressed before its publication.
Major concerns:
1. Overall the manuscript is lacking of the detailed description of how many mice were used in
each experimental group to achieve the statistical significance, including Figure 2, 3 and 4.
2. Fig. 3b and 3b: Statistical tests are needed.
3. Fig. 5b: The wester blotting analyses need to be quantified. Does these protein expressions
correlate with mRNA expressions?
4. Fig. 7: Why the higher dose (35 uM) of curcumin does not suppress mRNA expression but
protein expression of C/EBPa and PPARr?
Minor concerns:
The reviewer suggests the authors to thoroughly read through the manuscript to eliminate typos
and grammar mistakes.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170917)
18-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Gao,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Curcumin improves glycolipid metabolism through
regulating PPAR<U+03B3> signaling pathway in high-fat diet induced obese mice and 3T3-L1
adipocytes") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below
(not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 11-Oct-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
4
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170917
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
5
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Andrew Dunn
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Manuscript title:
“Curcumin improves glycolipid metabolism through regulating PPAR<U+03B3> signaling pathway in
high-fat diet induced obese mice and 3T3-L1 adipocytes”
Comments:
This original article has evaluated the effects of curcumin on glycolipid metabolism through
regulating PPAR<U+03B3> signaling pathway in high-fat diet induced obese mice and 3T3-L1
adipocytes.
Please consider my suggestions:
• The article appears to be understandable to readers.
• HDL and LDL should be rewritten as HDL-C (high dence lipoproteine cholesterol) and LDL-C
(low dence lipoproteine cholesterol) all the text long.
• It is necessary that the author conform the manuscript as mentioned in Instructions to Authors.
• Authors should add the number of the mice used in each group all the text figures.
• Authors should add the explanations of abbreviations whenever used first time all the text long
.For example what is the "WAT", it must be as: the white adipose tissue (WAT) for the first time.
• Authors should discuss the limitation of the present study.
• Please add some other related papers to discission such as: Zhou, Yajun, et al. "The interruption
of the PDGF and EGF signaling pathways by curcumin stimulates gene expression of PPAR
[gamma] in rat activated hepatic stellate cell in vitro." Laboratory investigation 87.5 (2007): 488.
So, we recommend this article for publication in the Royal Society Open Science after revision
including mentioned comments.
6
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Pan et al. examined the effects of a traditional Chinese herbal medicine, curcumin, in regulating
glycolipid metabolism in both mouse and adipocyte cell culture models. The authors observed
that administration of curcumin reduced body weight, lowed the blood glucose and serum lipid
profiles and improved insulin sensitivity in obese mice induced by high fat diet. Moreover, the
authors also observed PPARr signaling signature changes under curcumin administration in both
obese mice and 3T3-L1 cells, which is depending on the doses of curcumin. Based on these
observations the authors conclude that curcumin may hold treatment potential for obesity and
diabetes. Overall the presented data were supportive to the major conclusions but there are some
concerns need to be addressed before its publication.
Major concerns:
1. Overall the manuscript is lacking of the detailed description of how many mice were used in
each experimental group to achieve the statistical significance, including Figure 2, 3 and 4.
2. Fig. 3b and 3b: Statistical tests are needed.
3. Fig. 5b: The wester blotting analyses need to be quantified. Does these protein expressions
correlate with mRNA expressions?
4. Fig. 7: Why the higher dose (35 uM) of curcumin does not suppress mRNA expression but
protein expression of C/EBPa and PPARr?
Minor concerns:
The reviewer suggests the authors to thoroughly read through the manuscript to eliminate typos
and grammar mistakes.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170917)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170917.R1)
05-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Gao,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Curcumin improves glycolipid
metabolism through regulating PPAR<U+03B3> signaling pathway in high-fat diet induced obese mice
and 3T3-L1 adipocytes" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
7
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Appendix A
October 23, 2017
The Editor,
Royal Society Open Science
Ref. “Curcumin improves glycolipid metabolism through regulating PPAR<U+F067> signaling
pathway in high-fat diet induced obese mice and 3T3-L1 adipocytes” (ID:
label_version_2
RSOS-170917).
Authors: Yanyun Pan et al.
Dear Editor,
We would like to thank you for your professional advisories.
Attached please find the responses to the reviewers’ comments point-by-point, as well
as the revised manuscript.
All authors have approved the revised version of the manuscript.
Best regards,
Corresponding author
Sihua Gao, Diabetes Research Center, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine,
Beijing 100029, China
E-mail: sihuagaopaper@sina.com; Tel: +86-10-64286915; Fax: +86-10-64286672
Guangjian Jiang, Diabetes Research Center, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine,
Beijing 100029, China
E-mail: guangjianjiang@sina.com; Tel: +86-10-64286915; Fax: +86-10-64286672
Responses
Academic editor
*
1. Please your revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate
before the reference list:
1.1 Ethics statement
We have corrected the Ethics Statement of our manuscript. “All experiments were carried out
in strict accordance with the recommendations of “Guide to the Care and Use of Experimental
Animals, Animal Care Committee of Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, China”. The
protocol was approved by the “Animal Care Committee of Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, China”( number: BUCM-4-2016061701-3001).”
1.2 Data accessibility
Thanks for your careful review and professional suggestion. And we would like to add
the supplemental materials files that are relevant to our submission at the end of
manuscript.
Data S1 The body weight of mice in ND, HFD and HFD+Cur group.
Data S2 The fat mass of body weight in each group at week 4 and week 8.
Data S3 The fasting blood glucose of mice in ND, HFD and HFD+Cur group
Data S4 The results of OGTT at week 4 and week 8
Data S5 The serum lipid profiles and FFA level of mice in ND, HFD and HFD+Cur group.
1.3 Authors’ contributions
We have corrected the section of Authors’ contributions according to your
suggestion. “Y.P. and D.Z. conceived the study and drafted the manuscript. N.Y. and Y.P. carried
out the experiments and performed statistical analysis. T.A., J.M., and Y.G. contributed
reagents/materials/analysis tools. F.M. and D.Z. analysed the data. S.G. and G.J. designed the
experiments and reviewed drafts of the paper. All authors gave their final approval for
publication.”
1.4 About Funding statement
We would like to update our Funding Statement as “This work was supported by
Grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC81274041,
NSFC81503540), the Beijing University of Chinese Medicine Xin-Ao Award Fund
(1000062720062/008/005)
Reviewer #1:
1. HDL and LDL should be rewritten as HDL-C (high dence lipoproteine
cholesterol) and LDL-C (low dence lipoproteine cholesterol) all the text long.
Response: We thank this review for her/his valuable comments. We have
corrected the issues according to your suggestion in our revised manuscript
(highlighted with green color).
2. It is necessary that the author conform the manuscript as mentioned in
Instructions to Authors. Authors should add the number of the mice used in each
group all the text figures.
Response: According to your comments we have declare that all authors conform
the manuscript in Instruction to Authors. In addition, we have added the number of the
mice used in each group (10 samples per group were taken for each assay) to make it
understandable in our revised manuscript (highlighted with green color)
3. Authors should add the explanations of abbreviations whenever used first time
all the text long .For example what is the "WAT", it must be as: the white adipose
tissue (WAT) for the first time.
Response: Correction about the explanations of abbreviations have been made.
In detail, we have added adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL) and hormone-sensitive
lipase (HSL), peroxisome proliferator activated receptor <U+F067>/<U+F061>(PPAR <U+F067>/<U+F061>),
CCAAT/enhancer binding protein<U+F061> (C/EBP<U+F061>), the white adipose tissue (WAT),
triglyceride (TG) kits were obtained from Beijing Leadman Biochemical Co., Ltd. (Beijing,
China). Assay kits for total cholesterol (TC), low dence lipoproteine cholesterol (LDL-C)
and high dence lipoproteine cholesterol (HDL-C), oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) for
the first time according to your suggestion in our revised manuscript (highlighted with
green color).
4. Authors should discuss the limitation of the present study.
Response: Limitation of the current study have been added to section of
discussion as “But high dose (35 µM) of curcumin did not significantly upregulate the
protein expression of PPAR<U+03B3> and C / EBPa in 3T3-L1 cells. We hypothesize that
35µM curcumin may have an effect on the activity of some enzymes in the process of
translating into proteins, so further study and discussions are deserved to be explored
in the future.” in our revised manuscript (highlighted with green color)..
5. Please add some other related papers to discussion such as: Zhou, Yajun, et al.
"The interruption of the PDGF and EGF signaling pathways by curcumin stimulates
gene expression of PPAR [gamma] in rat activated hepatic stellate cell in vitro."
Laboratory investigation 87.5 (2007): 488.
Response: As this reference is helpful for revising and improving our paper. We
have already added this reference according to your suggestion in our revised
manuscript (highlighted with green color).
Moreover, Zhou, et al. showed that curcumin stimulates gene expression of proliferator
activated receptor <U+F067> (PPAR<U+F067>) in activated hepatic stellate cell and interrupted PDGF and EGF
signaling[21].
Special thanks to you for your good comments.
Reviewer #2:
1. Overall the manuscript is lacking of the detailed description of how many mice
were used in each experimental group to achieve the statistical significance, including
Figure 2, 3 and 4.
Response: According to your comments we have declare that all authors conform
the manuscript in Instructions to Authors. In addition, we have added the number of
the mice used in each group in Fig. 2, 3 and 4 to make it understandable in our revised
manuscript (highlighted with green color).
2. Fig. 3b and 3d: Statistical tests are needed.
Response: Thanks for your careful review and professional suggestion. We have
corrected the statistic tests in HFD and HFD+Cur group in Fig. 3b and 3d according
to your suggestion in our revised Fig.3.
3. Fig. 5b: The wester blotting analyses need to be quantified. Does these protein
expressions correlate with mRNA expressions?
Response: Thanks for your careful review and professional suggestion. We have
added the quantification figures of western blotting analyses in in Fig.5b and Fig.7b
according to your suggestion in our revised manuscript.
4. Fig. 7: Why the higher dose (35 uM) of curcumin does not suppress mRNA
expression but protein expression of C/EBP<U+F061> and PPARr?
Response: Thanks for your professional question. We hypothesize that high dose
(35<U+F06D>M) of curcumin may have an effect on the activity of some enzymes in the
process of translating into proteins, thus affecting the expression of C/EBP<U+F061> and
PPAR<U+F067>. Our subsequent experiments show that 35<U+F06D>M curcumin inhibits the
expression of these proteins, which will further study and discussion in the future.
Society Open
