Data-based reconstruction of complex geospatial networks,
nodal positioning and detection of hidden node
Ri-Qi Su, Wen-Xu Wang, Xiao Wang and Ying-Cheng Lai
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150577.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150577
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 February 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 26 October 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 24 November 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 26 November 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150061.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Liang Huang)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The paper treats an important problem in network science: how to reconstruct the geospatial
network from measured data sets, how to locate a node position and how to detect hidden nodes
if no data can be measured from it. The paper provides an efficient solution for the above issues.
The paper is well-organized and well written. The presentation is clear and the figures are nicely
drawn. The results are substantial and support their conclusion. Therefore I recommend
publication in its current form.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
###submitted by office###
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript by Su and coworkers entitled "Data based reconstruction of complex geospatial
networks, nodal positioning, and detection of hidden node" presents a novel combination of
established techniques and extensions thereof to infer geospatial networks from observed data.
The article is very well written, clear and provides important insights into a key challenge in
network inference.
I guess the only question which is currently superficially addressed is what happens to the
approach if the series expansions 'do not hold', ie. the Taylor expansion does not comprise the
needed terms to characterise the nodal dynamics. This could for instance happen if the dynamics
of the nodes are high dimensional or they do not follow an ODE such as in the case of stochastic
systems. Also what happens if the observation function is unknown and highly nonlinear?
Similarly what happens if the assumptions made that allowed the authors to detect even hidden
nodes are invalid?
Addressing all these issues in this paper would go far beyond the scope of the manuscript but I
guess some discussion would be important in order for the reader to appreciate how robust the
approach is, potentially along the lines of the discussion what happens if the time delays are too
long.
3
If such a discussion were to be included, I would strongly support the publication of the
manuscript.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
n/a
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Inferring the structure of networked systems from time series constitutes a topical and growing
field with cross-disciplinary interest. Mathematical analysis of inference methods for spatially
extended dynamical systems have received relatively little attention so far. The manuscript by Su
et al. considers the question whether the node positions and delays in a spatial networks may be
identified from time series observations and whether reconstruction is possible even if the time
series of one node is not measured. In my view, it is thus a timely contribution to the field.
The manuscript is scientifically sound and to the best of my knowledge, the main contributions
are novel. I congratulate the authors to the ideas and progress on spatial networks. I would thus
recommend publication if the criticism of all referees are met.
I have some minor and major comments, hints and criticism listed in the following:
1) In general, I think the layout of the presentation is far from ideal, because every
paragraph refers to (different parts of) the Methods section for details. This makes it hard to
follow what exactly has been done without being distracted from the story line. If there is no
strict requirement from the journal’s side, I would recommend to integrate the main
mathematical steps into the results section. I strongly recommend to make a request to the
Editors.
2) The methods section makes an assumption of “linear coupling function” but I do not see
that this is really exploited. In principle nonlinear coupling functions should work, but they
would require supra-linear scaling in the number of terms needed in the expansions. I suggest to
show an explicit example for nonlinear coupling functions.
3) On the same issue, in addition, nonlinear coupling could make reconstruction much
more cumbersome (in terms of required data amounts); at least a rough analysis of this aspect
would be useful and I think is required for a complete study. Please explicate where a
nonlinearity would change the analysis.
4
4) One a related issue, which aspect, if any, about complex *oscillatory* dynamics is
actually used?
5) The text states that hidden “nodes” could be detected; the content of the manuscript
describes detecting one node. Please clarify.
6) The recent introductory review to the field of network reconstruction cited provides a
rough overview of reconstruction, albeit on non-spatial networks. I recommend to embed the
findings of the current manuscript into the existing frontier of research and to more clearly state
where which progress has been made in comparison to existing literature, not only, but also
regarding spatial networks. Currently the discussion with respect to previous work is focused on
the aspects of delays. I recommend to clearly mark the line between previously existing results
and novel contributions. Such a delineation would also be useful for researchers aiming to work
on follow-up projects.
7) The authors state that geospatial networks are considered; whereas this may be relevant
in engineering applications, I do not see any restrictions of general spatial networks to geospatial
ones from the mathematics derived. Please clarify.
8) For generally interested readers, it should be intuitively explained in 2-3 sentences what
the triangularization does, in general, and in this application.
9) The authors state that two-dimensional spatial systems are considered and I agree that
standard triangularization is relatively simple in two dimensions. Apart from that I do not see
any restriction to two dimensions. I think a thorough discussion of this aspect in the final part of
the manuscript would be valuable.
10) In real applications, the number of required measurements is essential, determining the
total amount of data to be collected and processed. I strongly recommend to thoroughly study
this aspect and integrate the results within the current manuscript. How many measurements doe
one need for successful reconstruction depending on conditions (system size, sparsity, coupling
nonlinearity)?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150061)
03-Jul-2015
Dear Professor Lai:
Manuscript ID RSOS-150061 entitled "Data based reconstruction of complex geospatial networks,
nodal positioning, and detection of hidden node" which you submitted to Royal Society Open
Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this
letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
5
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 31-Dec-2015. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150061)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150577.R1 (Revision)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The data and descriptors provided are sufficient to support the conclusions
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The authors have adequately addressed all comments of referees 2 and 3.
Regarding my Comment 4, i think there was a misunderstanding. The authors cited literature
[47], [48] on oscillatory dynamics and describe the class of models. I think that would not actually
be necessary. My question was intended to reveal whether the approach, tested on oscillatory
systems, is actually in any way tied to systems with oscillatory dynamics and why/why not. In
my view, the authors could undo the amendment on this issue done in the last round without
loss of information to the reader but should comment on the question whether oscillatory
dynamics is required.
I leave the authors to decide how exactly to address this issue and hereby recommend publication
given the remainging small amendment (and/or revert) is made.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150577)
18-Nov-2015
Dear Professor Lai
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150577 entitled
"Data based reconstruction of complex geospatial networks,
nodal positioning, and detection of hidden node" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150577
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
7
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 27-Nov-2015). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Matthew Allinson
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Miles Padgett
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
8
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Professor Robert Hadfield):
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
The manuscript can be accepted provided some minor corrections are made (see reviewer
comments)
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have adequately addressed all comments of referees 2 and 3.
Regarding my Comment 4, i think there was a misunderstanding. The authors cited literature
[47], [48] on oscillatory dynamics and describe the class of models. I think that would not actually
be necessary. My question was intended to reveal whether the approach, tested on oscillatory
systems, is actually in any way tied to systems with oscillatory dynamics and why/why not. In
my view, the authors could undo the amendment on this issue done in the last round without
loss of information to the reader but should comment on the question whether oscillatory
dynamics is required.
I leave the authors to decide how exactly to address this issue and hereby recommend publication
given the remainging small amendment (and/or revert) is made.
**********************************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150577
Article Status: SUBMITTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150577
MS Title: Data based reconstruction of complex geospatial networks,
nodal positioning, and detection of hidden node
MS Authors: Su, Riqi; Wang, Wen-Xu; Wang, Xiao; Lai, Ying-Cheng
Contact Author: Ying-Cheng Lai
Contact Author Email: ylai1@asu.edu, Ying-Cheng.Lai@asu.edu
Contact Author Address 1:
Contact Author Address 2:
Contact Author Address 3: School of Electrical, Computer and Energy Engineering
Contact Author City: Tempe
Contact Author State: Arizona
Contact Author Country: United States
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code: 85287
Keywords: Complex networks, Network reconstruction, Data analysis
Abstract: Given a complex geospatial network with nodes distributed in a
two-dimensional region of the physical space, can the locations
of the nodes be determined and their connection patterns be uncovered
based solely on data? We consider the realistic
situation where time series/signals can be collected from a single
location. A key challenge is that the signals collected are
necessarily time delayed, due to the varying physical distances
from the nodes to the data collection center. We develop a
compressive sensing based approach enabling reconstruction
of the full topology of the underlying geospatial network and more
9
importantly, accurate estimate of the time delays. A standard
triangularization algorithm can then be employed to find the
physical locations of the nodes in the network. We further
demonstrate successful detection of a hidden node (or a hidden
source or threat), from which no signal can be obtained,
through accurate detection of all its neighboring nodes.
As a geospatial network has the feature that a node tends
to connect with geophysically nearby nodes, the localized region
that contains the hidden node can be identified.
EndDryadContent
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150577)
See Appendix B.
pendix A
October 26, 2015
ar Dr. Aime:
ank you for obtaining three referee reports on our manuscript entitled “Data based recon-
uction of complex geospatial networks, nodal positioning, and detection of hidden node.” We
quite happy that all three reports are essentially positive, and we are grateful that the refer-
provided a number of comments to improve our paper. In the revised paper, all the referee
mments have been carefully addressed. The main changes are
• an improved description of the mathematical framework;
• citation of additional references on geospatial network reconstruction method, as well as the
applicability of oscillatory dynamics in neuronal networks and meteorology;
• a brief description of triangulation;
• new computational results on the interplay between data amount, system size, network
sparsity and topology;
• an additional example of reconstruction in three dimensions;
• a discussion about detection of multiple hidden nodes;
• discussions about the limitations in non-Cartesian space, nonlinear coupling functions, and
potential solutions to deal with high dimensional and/or stochastic nodal dynamics.
e changes in the text are marked in red. A detailed, point-to-point response to all referee
mments is enclosed.
e to need to perform new computations and analysis to address the referee comments, it
k us a bit long to revise the paper. We apologize for the delay in resubmitting the paper.
wish to take this opportunity to thank the referees for their extremely helpful comments
at have resulted in an improved paper. We would also like to thank you for handling our paper
professionally and for your willingness to reconsider our paper. We hope our revised paper can
judged to have met the high standard of Royal Society Open Science.
cerely,
ng-Cheng Lai
izona State University
the behalf of all co-authors)
Response to Referee comments and description of changes made
feree 1
e referee stated “The paper treats an important problem in network science: how to recon-
uct the geospatial network from measured data sets, how to locate a node position and how to
ect hidden nodes if no data can be measured from it. The paper provides an efficient solution
the above issues.
The paper is well-organized and well written. The presentation is clear and the figures are
ely drawn. The results are substantial and support their conclusion. Therefore I recommend
blication in its current form.”
There are no specific comments for us to address.
feree 2
e referee stated “Inferring the structure of networked systems from time series constitutes
opical and growing field with cross-disciplinary interest. Mathematical analysis of inference
thods for spatially extended dynamical systems have received relatively little attention so far.
e manuscript by Su et al. considers the question whether the node positions and delays in a
tial networks may be identified from time series observations and whether reconstruction is
sible even if the time series of one node is not measured. In my view, it is thus a timely
ntribution to the field.
The manuscript is scientifically sound and to the best of my knowledge, the main contributions
novel. I congratulate the authors to the ideas and progress on spatial networks. I would thus
ommend publication if the criticism of all referees are met.”
The referee’s specific comments have been addressed, as follows.
mment 1: “In general, I think the layout of the presentation is far from ideal, because every
agraph refers to (different parts of ) the Methods section for details. This makes it hard to
low what exactly has been done without being distracted from the story line. If there is no strict
uirement from the journals side, I would recommend to integrate the main mathematical steps
o the results section. I strongly recommend to make a request to the Editors.”
sponse: We have thoroughly revised the Results and Methods sections. While ensur-
that the Royal Society Open Science format requirements are met, we integrated essential
uations/descriptions into the Results section, which include Eq. (1.2) and the compact linear
uation form Eq. (1.3). We believe that this way the mathematical formulation is more under-
ndable, and there would be no need to go back and forth between the Results and Methods
tions. We have also provided a brief description of the triangulation algorithm in the Results
tion.
mments 2 and 3: “The methods section makes an assumption of linear coupling function
I do not see that this is really exploited. In principle nonlinear coupling functions should
rk, but they would require supralinear scaling in the number of terms needed in the expansions.
uggest to show an explicit example for nonlinear coupling functions.
On the same issue, in addition, nonlinear coupling could make reconstruction much more
mbersome (in terms of required data amounts); at least a rough analysis of this aspect would be
ful and I think is required for a complete study. Please explicate where a nonlinearity would
ange the analysis.”
sponse: In the revised manuscript, we have added a detailed discussion about the potential
mplications that can arise in the reconstruction of nonlinear coupling functions. For the linear
upling scheme, we used the Taylor expansion to approximate the delayed coupling functions
the first order in the time delays so that its values can be estimated directly. However, if the
upling function is nonlinear, applying the Taylor expansion will result in complicated terms
at involve high orders of the time delays, making the extrapolation of the time delays difficult
not impossible). How to treat nonlinear coupling functions that contain time delays remains
be an open problem.
mment 4: “One a related issue, which aspect, if any, about complex *oscillatory* dynamics
actually used?”
sponse: We have provided new references on oscillatory dynamics in neuronal systems ([47])
d geospatial ecology systems ([48]).
mment 5: “The text states that hidden nodes could be detected; the content of the manuscript
cribes detecting one node. Please clarify.”
sponse: We have provided a more detailed discussion about detecting multiple hidden nodes.
particular, if there are more than one hidden node but they are not directly linked, i.e., they do
t share any neighboring nodes, we can use the cancellation method developed in our previous
rk ([39]) to ascertain the number of hidden nodes. The first step is to identify all neighboring
des. The second step is to check if the neighboring nodes are connected to the same hidden node
calculating the cancellation factor for any pair of neighboring nodes. If they are connected to
same hidden node, the cancellation factor is the ratio of their coupling strength to the common
den node, which is typically nonzero; otherwise they are connected to different hidden nodes.
e third step is to repeat this process for all possible pairs of the identified neighboring nodes.
is procedure allows us to classify the neighboring nodes into different groups, each containing
idden node.
mment 6: “The recent introductory review to the field of network reconstruction cited pro-
es a rough overview of reconstruction, albeit on non-spatial networks. I recommend to embed
findings of the current manuscript into the existing frontier of research and to more clearly
te where which progress has been made in comparison to existing literature, not only, but also
arding spatial networks. Currently the discussion with respect to previous work is focused on
aspects of delays. I recommend to clearly mark the line between previously existing results and
vel contributions. Such a delineation would also be useful for researchers aiming to work on
low up projects.”
sponse: We have added references to existing methods of reconstructing geospatial networks
Introduction) and emphasized that our method deals with systems with time delays with high
nstruction accuracy.
mment 7: “The authors state that geospatial networks are considered; whereas this may be
evant in engineering applications, I do not see any restrictions of general spatial networks to
spatial ones from the mathematics derived. Please clarify.”
sponse: Our method can locate nodes only in the Cartesian space, as the distances are
erred form the time delays information through a triangulation algorithm that is specifically
signed to deal with the Cartesian space. Extending the methodology to curved space is a very
eresting issue but it is open at the present.
mment 8: “For generally interested readers, it should be intuitively explained in sentences
at the triangularization does, in general, and in this application.”
sponse: Briefly, the triangularization algorithm uses the distances to a small set of reference
des (beacon nodes) to calculate the deterministic Cartesian coordinates for the detected nodes.
have provided more details about the triangularization procedure.
mment 9: “The authors state that two dimensional spatial systems are considered and I
ee that standard triangularization is relatively simple in two dimensions. Apart from that I do
t see any restriction to two dimensions. I think a thorough discussion of this aspect in the final
rt of the manuscript would be valuable.”
sponse: We have provided an example of reconstructing geospatial network in three dimen-
ns in the revised manuscript, demonstrating that our compressive sensing and triangularization
sed methodology can be extended to higher dimensional systems. One distinct feature of the
ee dimensional example is that, for distance sensing, more beacon nodes are required and the
imation errors are somewhat larger.
mment 10: “In real applications, the number of required measurements is essential, deter-
ning the total amount of data to be collected and processed. I strongly recommend to thoroughly
dy this aspect and integrate the results within the current manuscript. How many measure-
nts doe one need for successful reconstruction depending on conditions (system size, sparsity,
upling nonlinearity)?”
sponse: We have carried out a detailed calculation to demonstrate the effects of system size
d sparsities on the required amount of measurements, as shown in Fig. 5. We find that, as the
twork size is increased, the required normalized data amount tends to decrease. However, when
link density is increased (or with reduced sparsity), a larger amount of the normalized data
required for the same network size.
feree 3
e referee stated “The manuscript by Su and coworkers entitled ‘Data based reconstruction
complex geospatial networks, nodal positioning, and detection of hidden node’ presents a novel
mbination of established techniques and extensions thereof to infer geospatial networks from
erved data.
The article is very well written, clear and provides important insights into a key challenge in
twork inference.”
mment: “I guess the only question which is currently superficially addressed is what hap-
ns to the approach if the series expansions ’do not hold’, ie. the Taylor expansion does not
mprise the needed terms to characterise the nodal dynamics. This could for instance happen
he dynamics of the nodes are high dimensional or they do not follow an ODE such as in the
e of stochastic systems. Also what happens if the observation function is unknown and highly
nlinear? Similarly what happens if the assumptions made that allowed the authors to detect
n hidden nodes are invalid?
Addressing all these issues in this paper would go far beyond the scope of the manuscript but
uess some discussion would be important in order for the reader to appreciate how robust the
proach is, potentially along the lines of the discussion what happens if the time delays are too
g.
If such a discussion were to be included, I would strongly support the publication of the
nuscript.”
sponse: We have fully addressed this issue in the discussion section. In particular, assum-
that the observation function was unknown, for high-dimensional nodal dynamical equations
at cannot be sparsely expressed through a Taylor expansion, we can either choose alternative
pansion techniques, such as Fourier series, or test alternative observation variables to obtain
table response functions. We have added references to the previous works [37,38] on recon-
ucting stochastic evolutionary game networks. In such a system, the dynamical processes are
t described by nonlinear differential equations but are defined in terms of a set of stochastic
me rules. For example, at every time step, each agent chooses its strategy in a random manner.
workable set of observation variables can be, for example, the payoffs of all the agents. It was
monstrated that the network structure under stochastic game rules can still be constructed
th high accuracy, based on compressive sensing.
ppendix B
November 24, 2015
ar Dr. Allinson:
ank you very much for accepting our manuscript RSOS-150577 entitled “Data based re-
nstruction of complex geospatial networks, nodal positioning, and detection of hidden node.”
have revised the manuscript again by addressing the minor comment of Reviewer 2. The
w changes in the text are marked in red. A detailed, point-to-point response to the reviewer
mment is enclosed.
have submitted all the supporting data and code to Dryad.
cerely,
ng-Cheng Lai
izona State University
the behalf of all co-authors)
Response to Reviewer comments and description of changes made
viewer 2
e reviewer stated “The authors have adequately addressed all comments of referees 2 and 3.
garding my Comment 4, i think there was a misunderstanding. The authors cited literature
], [48] on oscillatory dynamics and describe the class of models. I think that would not actu-
y be necessary. My question was intended to reveal whether the approach, tested on oscillatory
tems, is actually in any way tied to systems with oscillatory dynamics and why/why not. In
view, the authors could undo the amendment on this issue done in the last round without loss
information to the reader but should comment on the question whether oscillatory dynamics is
uired.” “I leave the authors to decide how exactly to address this issue and hereby recommend
blication given the remaining small amendment (and/or revert) is made.”
sponse: We have addressed the reviewer’s question by adding a discussion in the Discussion
tion about the applicability of our approach to dynamical processes other than those described
continuous-time oscillatory systems, which reads:
• While we used continuous-time, oscillatory dynamics on networks as a prototypical model,
our compressive sensing based framework for reconstruction of geospatial networks can be
generalized to other types of network dynamical processes. For example, previous works
demonstrated that both discrete time map [35] and evolutionary game dynamics [37] can be
formulated as an optimization problem that can be solved by compressive sensing. To include
time delays for discrete time maps is straightforward. For evolutionary game dynamics, one
can take into account time delays by using a delayed vector for each agent, the entries of
which correspond to the time delays between this agent and all other agents in the network.
For large networks the required computation may be demanding. A more serious difficulty
may arise when the delays among the agents are substantial, leading to the violation of the
sparsity condition required for compressive sensing. To accurately estimate the time delays
for complex networks hosting evolutionary game dynamics is thus an open problem at the
present.
Society Open
