Remote sensing appraisal of Lake Chad shrinkage connotes
severe impacts on green economics and socio-economics
of the catchment area
Olapeju Y. Onamuti, Emmanuel C. Okogbue and Israel R. Orimoloye
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171120.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171120
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 6 October 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 6 October 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171120.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Micheal Victor)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Overall, this is a clear, concise, and well-written manuscript. The introduction is relevant and
theory based. Sufficient information about the previous study findings is presented for readers to
follow the present study rationale and procedures. The methods are generally appropriate.
Overall, the results are clear and compelling and the authors make a systematic contribution to
the research literature in this area of investigation. The longitudinal nature of the work is a
welcome addition. Overall, this is a high quality work, however, the relevance and significance of
the study to the existing knowledge is certain.
Please find attached my comments, on the manuscript entitled “Remote sensing appraisal of Lake
Chad shrinkage connotes severe impacts on green economics and socio-economics of the
catchment area” for consideration for publication in RSOS. I have made some comments and
believe that it will be corrected by the authors as highlighted in the attached file.
I, therefore, recommend this article for publication in Royal society open science (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Alexander Solomon)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The article is good and well writeen and the topic is interesting with unique data but some minor
changes need to be corrected (Appendix B).
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171120)
05-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Orimoloye
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171120 entitled
"Remote sensing appraisal of Lake Chad shrinkage connotes severe impacts on green economics
and socioeconomics of the catchment area" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the
referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171120
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
4
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 14-Oct-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Mr Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Jon Blundy
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Overall, this is a clear, concise, and well-written manuscript. The introduction is relevant and
theory based. Sufficient information about the previous study findings is presented for readers to
follow the present study rationale and procedures. The methods are generally appropriate.
Overall, the results are clear and compelling and the authors make a systematic contribution to
the research literature in this area of investigation. The longitudinal nature of the work is a
welcome addition. Overall, this is a high quality work, however, the relevance and significance of
the study to the existing knowledge is certain.
Please find attached my comments, on the manuscript entitled “Remote sensing appraisal of Lake
Chad shrinkage connotes severe impacts on green economics and socio-economics of the
catchment area” for consideration for publication in RSOS. I have made some comments and
believe that it will be corrected by the authors as highlighted in the attached file.
I, therefore, recommend this article for publication in Royal society open science
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The article is good and well writeen and the topic is interesting with unique data but some minor
changes need to be corrected
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171120)
See Appendix C.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171120.R1)
06-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Orimoloye,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Remote sensing appraisal of Lake
Chad shrinkage connotes severe impacts on green economics and socioeconomics of the
catchment area" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
6
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
To the Authors,
Through
The Editor, Royal society open science,
Please find attached my comments, on the manuscript entitled “Remote sensing appraisal of Lake
Chad shrinkage connotes severe impacts on green economics and socioeconomics of the
catchment area” for consideration for publication in RSOS. I have made some comments and
believe that it will be corrected by the authors as highlighted in the table below.
therefore recommend this article for publication in Royal society open science
Thank you very much for the opportunity for reviewing the manuscript.
See the comments in the table below:
No Reviewer`s suggestion/concern Response
Reviewer
1 The authors have done a good job. However,
prior to the publication of manuscript, it
requires some necessary corrections listed
below.
2 Abstract
Pg. 2 Line 33, 34, extent and size mean the same
thing, I suggest that, author can use any of the two.
3 Introduction
Pg. 3 Line 7, food and feed! Remove feed
4 Pg. 4 Line 6, remove the before 1963
Methodology
5 Pg. 4 Line 37, insert coma after Libya
6 Pg. 5 Line 15, correct the words Landsat and
version
7 Pg. 5 Line 53, It appears that your sentence
or clause uses an incorrect form of the
verb obtained. Consider changing it.
Pg. 6 Line 24, The word Then doesn’t seem to fit
this context. Consider replacing it with a different
one.
8 Result
9 Pg. 8 line 8, It appears that you have
an unnecessary comma after the subordinating
conjunction Because. Consider removing the
comma.
10 Pg.8 lines 7-12, kindly explain the reason for
2001 imagery showing only part, not in full,
may be due to some reasons that is known to
you as the author
11 Pg. 8 Line 49, The singular verb is does not appear
to agree with the plural subject characteristics.
Consider changing the verb form for subject-verb
agreement.
pendix B
iewer’ comments on Article ‘‘RSOS-171120’’: COMMENTS TO THE EDITOR
EREST TO READERs: High
IGINALITY AND CONTENT OF NEW INFORMATION: High
UDY DESIGN: Adequate
ALYSES: Appropriate
LIDITY OF CONCLUSIONS: Valid
ARITY OF WRITING: High
COMMENDATIONS: ACCEPT
ECOMMEND ACCEPTANCE: is the length appropriate? : Yes
there any figures or tables that are unnecessary: No
you feel this should be recommended for Editorial? _*Yes (below are the comments to be
essed)
MMENTS TO THE EDITORS: (Do not repeat comments made to authors)
authors present interesting data and analysis on Remote sensing appraisal of Lake Chad
nkage connotes severe impacts on green economics and socioeconomics of the catchment area.
authors disclosed an appalling rate of shrinkage and damaging influences of the lake on the
ologic potential, eco-sustainability and socioeconomics of the drainage area.
manuscript is well written, has an important environmental message, and should be of great
est to the readers. However, there are a couple of other minor issues that have been mentioned
e “comments to the authors”. Overall, it is an important study, and should be considered for
ication in RSOS, once the minor correction has been resolved.
se do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions.
tract
2 line 20, the word boarder doesn’t seem to fit this context. Consider replacing it with
ferent one.
2 line 30, it appears that you have extra spaces surrounding the slash between the
ds use and land. Consider removing the extra spaces.
oduction
hods
5 line 16, Landsat not LandSat, consider changing it
5 line 16, the word verion is not exist or not fit this context. If you’re sure this spelling
rrect, you can justify this to prevent future alerts. But I think you mean ‘version’
ult
6 line 37, it appears that the singular verb ‘was’ does not agree with the plural compound
ect ‘the portion covered by sandy soil and bare ground’. I suggest you consider changing the
to the plural form.
ussion
10 line 45, the words area and extent mean the same thing consider removing one.
2 line 54, the verb contributes after the modal verb could do not appear to be in the correct
. Consider changing the verb form by removing the‘s’.
d luck
pendix C
hor’s comments
ar Editor/Referees,
rite to express my gratitude to the reviewers for the comments and recommendation, thank
for the good job. Below is the authors’ response
viewer 1
o Reviewer’s suggestion/concern Authors’ response
The authors have done a good job. However, prior to Thank you
the publication of manuscript, it requires some
necessary corrections listed below.
Abstract “Extent” removed
Pg. 1 Line 20, extent and size mean the same
thing, I suggest that, author can use any of the two
Introduction “Feed” removed
Pg. 2 Line 4, food and feed! Remove feed
Pg. 3 Line 3, remove the before 1963 “The” removed
Methodology “Comma” inserted
Pg. 3 Line 25, insert coma after Libya
Pg. 4 Line 6, correct the words Landsat and Landsat and version corrected
version
Pg. 4 Line 23, It appears that your sentence or clause corrected
uses an incorrect form of the verb obtained. Consider
changing it.
Pg. 5 Line 13, The word Then doesn’t seem to fit this modified
context. Consider replacing it with a different one.
Result ”comma” removed
Pg. 7 line 2, It appears that you have an unnecessary
comma after the subordinating conjunction Because.
Consider removing the comma.
Pg.7 lines 3 and 4, kindly explain the reason for “modified”
2001 imagery showing only part, not in full,
may be due to some reasons that is known to you as the
author
Pg. 8 Line 49, The singular verb is does not appear to “Corrected”
agree with the plural subject characteristics. Consider
changing the verb form for subject-verb agreement.
viewer 2
o Reviewer`s suggestion/concern Authors’ response
Abstract corrected
Pg. 1 line 10, the word boarder doesn’t seem to fit this
context. Consider replacing it with a different one.
Pg. 1 line 18, it appears that you have extra spaces corrected
surrounding the slash between the words use and
land. Consider removing the extra spaces.
Methods corrected
Pg. 4 line 6, Landsat not LandSat, consider changing it
Pg. 4 line 6, the word verion is not exist or not fit this corrected
context. If you’re sure this spelling is correct, you can
justify this to prevent future alerts. But I think you
mean ‘version’
Result corrected
Pg. 5 line 20, it appears that the singular verb ‘was
‘does not agree with the plural compound subject
‘the portion covered by sandy soil and bare ground’. I
suggest you consider changing the verb to the plural
form.
Discussion “extent” removed
Pg. 9 line 19, the words area and extent mean the same
thing consider removing one.
Pg. 11 line 32, the verb contributes after the modal verb corrected
“could” do not appear to be in the correct form.
Consider changing the verb form by removing the‘s’.
Society Open
