Dopamine regulates termite soldier differentiation through
trophallactic behaviours
Hajime Yaguchi, Takaya Inoue, Ken Sasaki and Kiyoto Maekawa
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150574.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150574
Review timeline
Original submission: 24 October 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 14 December 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 14 January 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150574.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Manuscript ID: RSOS-150574
Title: Dopamine regulates termite soldier differentiation through trophallactic behaviours
Authors: Maekawa, Kiyoto (contact); Yaguchi, Hajime; Inoue, Takaya; Sasaki, Ken
GENERAL COMMENTS:
This paper reports on studies by the authors to investigate the roles of the neurotransmitter
dopamine in regulating termite trophallaxis behaviors that have an apparent impact on soldier
caste differentiation. The authors conducted studies to measure dopamine and metabolite levels;
gene expression related to dopaminergic signaling, biosynthesis and breakdown; and
trophallactic bioassay studies that employed a dopamine receptor antagonist with behavioral
observations. The authors found evidence in support of the presence of dopamine and
metabolites in totipotent 3rd instar larvae, expression of key genes related to dopamine signaling,
and most importantly, evidence that (1) a dopamine receptor antagonist drug reduced
trophallactic exchanges between totipotent larvae and their parents, and (2) in parallel reduced
presoldier differentiation. This represents compelling evidence that founding royal pairs are
transferring chemical signals to totipotent larvae that promote soldier caste differentiation. The
results thus link dopamine-dependent behaviors to trophallaxis behaviors and soldier caste
differentiation.
However, the authors failed to acknowledge that dopamine is also linked strongly to insect
cuticular melanization, which is an extremely important aspect of soldier caste differentiation.
This is because soldier termites have to develop large sclerotized heads and mandibles that are a
key characteristic defining their caste associated task of colony defense. This is not to say that the
authors are incorrect or wrong in their findings linking trophallaxis and case differentiation, but I
do not believe that dopamine links to soldier cuticular melanization can be ignored with respect
to interpretation of the results. At the very least I think this possibility needs to be considered in
parallel with the behavioral findings. I do not feel the paper would be credible without discussing
this possibility.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS:
Line 25: The term “No. 1 larvae” is quite confusing throughout the entire manuscript due to the
fact that the term is referring to 3rd instar larvae. It would be less confusing to just refer to this
stage as “3rd instar” and eliminate use of “No. 1” except initially when describing the stage. The
4th instars then are either undifferentiated “4th instar larvae”, or “presoldiers”. Using these terms
would help readers quite a bit to understand the subject matter.
Line 285: Use of the term “this is the first report” should be avoided in scientific publications.
The novelty should be apparent through the sum of the reporting.
Line 291-293: Dopamine is not entirely produced in nervous tissues in insects, or at least, it is not
active only there. Dopamine also plays a critical role in cuticular melanization and in the
encapsulation response to invading pathogens. Dopamine could potentially play a large role in
the increased cuticular melanization that occurs in soldier caste members; however, this
possibility was not considered in the current work.
3
Line 294: delete “extraordinary”
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript by Yaguchi et al. entitled “Dopamine regulates termite soldier differentiation
through trophallactic behaviours” represents an interesting and novel observation linking the
caste differentiation in termites with the role of behavioural modulators, namely biogenic amines.
While the role of major endocrine player, i.e. the juvenile hormone (JH) in the differentiation of
the soldier caste in termites is notorious and well studied, including recent studies on the JH
receptor in termites, the factors related to the caste-specific behaviour involved in the caste
differentiation and regulation (inhibition-stimulation) are largely unknown. The authors use a
well suited model species, with a stable and predictable larval stage always differentiating into
soldiers, and dissect the role of dopamine using a combination of DA level analysis, expression
patterns of genes involved in DA biosynthesis, behavioural observations, and pharmacological
experiments blocking the DA reception. Despite its multidiciplinarity, the manuscript is not
excessively long, states clearly its goals and follows and is appropriately structured.
The results show a clear link between the DA production, soldier differentiation rate and
behaviour. Even though the authors fail at some point in interpreting these clear results in a clear
hypothesis, I consider the manuscript as very interesting and I recommend its publication in
label_version_2
RSOS, provided that the authors address my comments below.
General comments:
A. While the results are very interesting and present a clear link between the dopamine level,
behaviour and caste differentiation, I miss a straightforward hypothesis on the regulatory
pathway. The discussion and conclusions drawn are somewhat turning in round. I would like the
authors to postulate some hypothesis based on following point and questions:
4
1. It appears that dopamine alters the behaviour of the larvae and reduces the frequency of anal
feeding they take from reproductives. Therefore, they receive less of the hypothetic factor
increasing the JH level, required for soldier differentiation. But the authors should speculate on
what is upstream and downstream in the regulation: Is JH signalling upstream, affecting thus the
DA level and consequently the behaviour and frequencies of trophallaxis? Then what would
differentiate the JH levels among No. 1 and No. 2 larva? Is the DA upstream, affecting the JH
level through changes in behaviour and frequencies of trophallactic food intake and thus the
intake of JH stimulating factor?
Having said that, I propose also to modify the conclusion statement “This is the first study to
clarify the role of DA during termite caste differentiation.” I prefer writing that this is the first
study to HIGHLIGHT the role of DA during termite caste differentiation.
B. The introduction should contain a mention that the traditional view of soldier differentiation in
termites was based on the presence of negative feedback pheromone regulation by means of
primer pheromones distributed-emitted by the present soldiers and thus the first soldiers were
though to develop in young societies devoid of soldiers. These first soldiers themselves were
though to inhibit the differentiation of further soldiers. The relevant literature illustrating this
view should be cited.
This does not mean that I doubt the significance of the trophallaxis from reproductives to
immatures to be the differentiation factor: contrary is true, given the known stimulatory effect of
reproductives on soldier formation, and the frequent trophallactic behaviours among
reproductives and offspring in young societies, such an influence of the parents is likely.
C. When having a look at the figures, namely Fig. 3, I wonder how much the data was consistent
with the use of parametric statistics and whether it was tested (Levenes test on variance equality
and others) prior to the use of the ANOVAs. Based on the graphs presented (BTW, it should be
clearly mentioned in the figure legends what the boxes and whiskers mean, it appears that these
mean median, quartiles and range), I guess that the differences among the variances may be too
large to comply with parametric tests…
D. The manuscript would greatly benefit from further native speaker editing, I pinpoint a few
typos or suggestions listed among my specific comments below.
Specific comments:
Abstract L21-22.
Over-simplified – when saying that intrinsic factors of the caste differentiation involved in
behavioural interactions are not known. In fact, all intrinsic factors involved in the caste
differentiation have an ultimate impact on behaviour of the determined caste. At several several
hierarchical levels, these intrinsic are known, i.e. endocrine level = juvenile hormone; diet
elements responsible for the caste regulation = royalactin in the honey bee royal jelly or geraniol
in stingless bees. Please rephrase – you can for instance directly mention that these social
interactions = trophallaxis, here your finding is undoubtedly original.
L31-33 + 365
Conserved role for dopamin in social insects in general? Rather speculative. I prefer writing that
“DA role should be investigated in other social insects with frequent trophallactic and
allogrooming behaviour.”
sL. 50
“Individuals” instead of “individual”
5
L. 50-51.
Well, the soldiers do not have to be present in many species of social Hymenoptera… Just as the
king…
L. 51
„of social insects“ instead of „in social insects“
L. 74, 75
“within” instead of “for”
L. 85
“dopamine (DA), which is synthesized from tyrosine by enzymatic reactions” Of course that
tyrosine is synthesized by enzymes. Please, remove „by enzymatic reactions“…
L. 100
„in“ is missing in the sentence „might be involved this differentiation“
L. 193
Remove „respectively“
L. 208
„we regarded this behaviour 208 was not the latter but the former“. I do not undestad the
sentence, please, rephrase.
L. 214
„4th instar worker“
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150574)
30-Nov-2015
Dear Dr Maekawa,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Dopamine regulates termite soldier differentiation through
trophallactic behaviours") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to
revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 23-Dec-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
6
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150574
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
7
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150574)
See Appendix A.
label_version_3
RSOS-150574.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Mike Scharf)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
8
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The scientific content and revisions made to the manuscript are now mostly fine. I have included
some suggested editorial / language revisions in the appended PDF that are intended to make
the writing more clear for an international audience.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
In the revised version of the manuscript, the authors implemented all of my suggestions and
comments, making thus some of the conclusions less ambitious and improving the general
message of the manuscript in the context of the recent and past literature.
The style still merits to be improved at some places. I add below just a few corrections to be
made.
L20: the paper will not lose its general interest if you use „social insects“ instead of „social
animals“
L21-22: A verb is missing in the second sentence…
L72: “can develop” instead of “can be developed”
L312: “occurred” instead of “was occurred”
L324: “is regulated” instead of “was regulated”
9
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150574.R1)
12-Jan-2016
Dear Dr Maekawa:
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150574.R1
entitled "Dopamine regulates termite soldier differentiation through trophallactic behaviours" has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150574.R1
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
10
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 21-Jan-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Matthew Allinson
Editorial Coordinator
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
11
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150574)
See Appendix B.
lies to the comments of both reviewers are as follows.
iewer 1
mment 1:
paper reports on studies by the authors to investigate the roles of the neurotransmitter
amine in regulating termite trophallaxis behaviors that have an apparent impact on soldier caste
rentiation. The authors conducted studies to measure dopamine and metabolite levels; gene
ression related to dopaminergic signaling, biosynthesis and breakdown; and trophallactic
ssay studies that employed a dopamine receptor antagonist with behavioral observations. The
ors found evidence in support of the presence of dopamine and metabolites in totipotent 3rd
ar larvae, expression of key genes related to dopamine signaling, and most importantly, evidence
(1) a dopamine receptor antagonist drug reduced trophallactic exchanges between totipotent
ae and their parents, and (2) in parallel reduced presoldier differentiation. This represents
pelling evidence that founding royal pairs are transferring chemical signals to totipotent larvae
promote soldier caste differentiation. The results thus link dopamine-dependent behaviors to
hallaxis behaviors and soldier caste differentiation.
ever, the authors failed to acknowledge that dopamine is also linked strongly to insect cuticular
anization, which is an extremely important aspect of soldier caste differentiation. This is because
ier termites have to develop large sclerotized heads and mandibles that are a key characteristic
ning their caste associated task of colony defense. This is not to say that the authors are
rrect or wrong in their findings linking trophallaxis and case differentiation, but I do not believe
dopamine links to soldier cuticular melanization can be ignored with respect to interpretation of
results. At the very least I think this possibility needs to be considered in parallel with the
avioral findings. I do not feel the paper would be credible without discussing this possibility.
ly:
nk you very much for the useful and valid comments on our manuscript. We agreed the
ments by the reviewer and added some sentences to explain the DA role for the cuticular
ation, and newly cited four related references (41, 42, 43 and 46), as follows;
9-301] DA is well known to be involved in insect cuticular tanning, and biosynthetic genes are
ngly expressed at epidermis (41, 42).
1-314] Soldiers possess a sclerotized head with the pigmented cuticle, and the specific cuticular
ation was occurred during soldier differentiation in Reticulitermes speratus (17) and
otermopsis sjostedti (43). Consequently, the highly expressed genes in the No. 1 larvae (TH and
C) could be also involved in a soldier-specific cuticular formation in this species.
ell as TH and DDC (46).
mment 2:
25: The term “No. 1 larvae” is quite confusing throughout the entire manuscript due to the fact
the term is referring to 3rd instar larvae. It would be less confusing to just refer to this stage as
instar” and eliminate use of “No. 1” except initially when describing the stage. The 4th instars
are either undifferentiated “4th instar larvae”, or “presoldiers”. Using these terms would help
ers quite a bit to understand the subject matter.
ly:
understand this comment. However, because both No. 1 and No. 2 larvae are 3rd instar larvae,
cannot just refer to No. 1 as “3rd instar”, as suggested by the reviewer. Moreover, these terms
e been used in our previous literatures (Maekawa et al. 2012; Masuoka et al. 2015; Yaguchi et al.
5). Consequently, we decided to use them in this revised MS, but we added the supplementary
re (Fig. S1) and modified the text as follows, to avoid a misunderstanding and explain the exact
ning of No. 1 and No. 2 larvae.
] We changed “the oldest 3rd instar larva (called the No. 1 larva)” to “the oldest 3rd instar larva
t moulted 3rd instar larva; No. 1 larva)”.
-80] We changed “the next 3rd instar larva (No. 2 larva)” to “the next-oldest 3rd instar larva
ond moulted 3rd instar larva; No. 2 larva)”.
3-636, Figure S1 caption] Ontogeny of the No. 1 and No. 2 larvae. In the incipient colony of
termopsis nevadensis, the oldest 3rd instar larva (No. 1 larva) always moulted into presoldiers
soldiers, and the next-oldest 3rd instar larva (No. 2 larva) moulted into 4th instar larva [18].
soldiers are equipped with fundamental morphologies of soldiers (e.g. enlarged head and
dibles in this species).
mment 3:
285: Use of the term “this is the first report” should be avoided in scientific publications. The
elty should be apparent through the sum of the reporting.
ly:
2] We deleted “To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report”. Alternatively, we added “This
mment 4:
291-293: Dopamine is not entirely produced in nervous tissues in insects, or at least, it is not
ve only there. Dopamine also plays a critical role in cuticular melanization and in the
apsulation response to invading pathogens. Dopamine could potentially play a large role in the
eased cuticular melanization that occurs in soldier caste members; however, this possibility was
considered in the current work.
ly:
se refer to the reply to the reviewer 1's comment 1.
mment 5:
294: delete “extraordinary”
ly:
deleted it as the reviewer’s suggestion.
iewer 2
mment 1:
manuscript by Yaguchi et al. entitled “Dopamine regulates termite soldier differentiation through
hallactic behaviours” represents an interesting and novel observation linking the caste
rentiation in termites with the role of behavioural modulators, namely biogenic amines. While the
of major endocrine player, i.e. the juvenile hormone (JH) in the differentiation of the soldier caste
rmites is notorious and well studied, including recent studies on the JH receptor in termites, the
ors related to the caste-specific behaviour involved in the caste differentiation and regulation
ibition-stimulation) are largely unknown. The authors use a well suited model species, with a
le and predictable larval stage always differentiating into soldiers, and dissect the role of
amine using a combination of DA level analysis, expression patterns of genes involved in DA
ynthesis, behavioural observations, and pharmacological experiments blocking the DA reception.
pite its multidiciplinarity, the manuscript is not excessively long, states clearly its goals and
ws and is appropriately structured.
results show a clear link between the DA production, soldier differentiation rate and behaviour.
n though the authors fail at some point in interpreting these clear results in a clear hypothesis, I
sider the manuscript as very interesting and I recommend its publication in RSOS, provided that
authors address my comments below.
ly:
nk you very much for the favorable comments on our manuscript. We revised our manuscript as
following suggestions and cited additional references in the text.
mment 2:
eral comments:
While the results are very interesting and present a clear link between the dopamine level,
aviour and caste differentiation, I miss a straightforward hypothesis on the regulatory pathway.
discussion and conclusions drawn are somewhat turning in round. I would like the authors to
tulate some hypothesis based on following point and questions:
appears that dopamine alters the behaviour of the larvae and reduces the frequency of anal
ing they take from reproductives. Therefore, they receive less of the hypothetic factor increasing
JH level, required for soldier differentiation. But the authors should speculate on what is
tream and downstream in the regulation: Is JH signalling upstream, affecting thus the DA level
consequently the behaviour and frequencies of trophallaxis? Then what would differentiate the
evels among No. 1 and No. 2 larva? Is the DA upstream, affecting the JH level through changes
ehaviour and frequencies of trophallactic food intake and thus the intake of JH stimulating factor?
ly:
is the valid comment. Based on the previously published data (Maekawa et al. 2012; Yaguchi et
015), the latter hypothesis is plausible. We added the following text in the discussion.
0-366] In Z. nevadensis, JHAMT and CYP15A1 genes involved in the final steps of JH
ynthesis were highly expressed in the heads of No. 1 larvae at days 2–3 and 4–5 after their
earance, respectively (28). On the other hand, the No. 1 larvae most frequently received
todeal foods from reproductives at day 3 after their appearance, and the frequency of
hallaxis was gradually reduced afterwards (18). Consequently, we hypothesize that DA signalling
he No. 1 larvae may affect the JH level through changes in behaviour and frequencies of
hallactic food intake and JH dependent developmental formation.
mment 3:
ing said that, I propose also to modify the conclusion statement “This is the first study to clarify
role of DA during termite caste differentiation.” I prefer writing that this is the first study to
ly:
changed the text as suggested by the reviewer [L380-382].
mment 4:
he introduction should contain a mention that the traditional view of soldier differentiation in
ites was based on the presence of negative feedback pheromone regulation by means of primer
romones distributed-emitted by the present soldiers and thus the first soldiers were though to
elop in young societies devoid of soldiers. These first soldiers themselves were though to inhibit
differentiation of further soldiers. The relevant literature illustrating this view should be cited. This
s not mean that I doubt the significance of the trophallaxis from reproductives to immatures to be
differentiation factor: contrary is true, given the known stimulatory effect of reproductives on
ier formation, and the frequent trophallactic behaviours among reproductives and offspring in
ng societies, such an influence of the parents is likely.
ly:
added the text to explain the traditional view on the regulation of termite soldier differentiation, as
ws;
-73] Generally in termites, additional soldier differentiation is inhibited by the existing soldier in
nest, probably because of the presence of negative feedback pheromone regulation (reviewed in
On the other hand, soldier differentiation is promoted by the existence of reproductives in some
cies (reviewed in 5). Thus, the first soldier can be developed in an incipient colony and it is
ght to inhibit the differentiation of further soldiers (18).
mment 5:
hen having a look at the figures, namely Fig. 3, I wonder how much the data was consistent with
use of parametric statistics and whether it was tested (Levenes test on variance equality and
rs) prior to the use of the ANOVAs. Based on the graphs presented (BTW, it should be clearly
tioned in the figure legends what the boxes and whiskers mean, it appears that these mean
ian, quartiles and range), I guess that the differences among the variances may be too large to
ply with parametric tests…
ording to the comment, we newly performed the Levene’s test prior to the use of the ANOVAs.
added some sentences to explain these methods and results, and modified the Fig. 3 and Fig.
egends, as follows;
9-230] Prior to the use of one-way ANOVA, we performed the Levene’s test on the variance
ality using R ver. 2.15.2 (37).
5-627] The boxes and whiskers mean median, quartiles and range. The data is consistent with
use of parametric statistics by the Levene’s test (proctodeal trophallaxis: p = 0.394; allogrooming:
0.058; locomotor activities: p = 0.675) prior to the use of the ANOVAs.
9-671] The boxes and whiskers mean median, quartiles and range. The data is consistent with
use of parametric statistics by the Levene’s test (king: p = 0.060; queen: p = 0.385) prior to the
of the ANOVAs.
mment 6:
tract L21-22.
r-simplified – when saying that intrinsic factors of the caste differentiation involved in behavioural
ractions are not known. In fact, all intrinsic factors involved in the caste differentiation have an
ate impact on behaviour of the determined caste. At several several hierarchical levels, these
nsic are known, i.e. endocrine level = juvenile hormone; diet elements responsible for the caste
lation = royalactin in the honey bee royal jelly or geraniol in stingless bees. Please rephrase –
can for instance directly mention that these social interactions = trophallaxis, here your finding is
oubtedly original.
ly:
revised the text as follows;
-22] Trophallaxis is one of the most frequently observed interactions, but no studies identifying
intrinsic factors involved in this behaviour and caste differentiation.
mment 7:
-33 + 365
served role for dopamine in social insects in general? Rather speculative. I prefer writing that
role should be investigated in other social insects with frequent trophallactic and allogrooming
aviour.”
ly:
revised the text as suggested (L32-33, 381-382).
mment 8:
50
ividuals” instead of “individual”
ly:
corrected it as “individuals” (L50).
mment 9:
0-51.
l, the soldiers do not have to be present in many species of social Hymenoptera… Just as the
…
ly:
changed "In a nest of social insects,..." to "In a nest of termites,..." (L50).
mment 10:
1
ocial insects“ instead of „in social insects“
ly:
corrected it as suggested (L51).
mment 11:
4, 75
hin” instead of “for”
ly:
corrected it as suggested (L79, 80).
5
amine (DA), which is synthesized from tyrosine by enzymatic reactions” Of course that tyrosine
ynthesized by enzymes. Please, remove „by enzymatic reactions“…
ly:
removed "by enzymatic reactions" (L91).
mment 13:
00
is missing in the sentence „might be involved this differentiation“
ly:
added "in" (L106).
mment 14:
93
ove „respectively“
ly:
removed “respectively” and added “(n = 10)” in the text (L199).
mment 15:
08
regarded this behaviour was not the latter but the former“. I do not undestad the sentence,
se, rephrase.
ly:
revised the text as follows;
4] we omitted the count of allogrooming behaviour (namely, 1 proctodeal trophallaxis and 0
grooming),
14
instar worker“
ly:
added “worker” in the text (L220).
Replies to the comments of both reviewers are as follows.
Reviewer 1's comment:
The scientific content and revisions made to the manuscript are now mostly fine. I have
included some suggested editorial / language revisions in the appended PDF that are
intended to make the writing more clear for an international audience.
Reply:
We corrected all points suggested by the reviewer, as follows;
L21: studies have been conducted
L33: the role of DA
L70: existing soldiers
L73: the first soldiers apparently develop in incipient colonies in response to
reproductive cues and their presence inhibits the formation of more soldiers
L313: occurs
Reviewer 2
In the revised version of the manuscript, the authors implemented all of my suggestions
and comments, making thus some of the conclusions less ambitious and improving the
general message of the manuscript in the context of the recent and past literature.
The style still merits to be improved at some places. I add below just a few corrections
to be made.
Comment 1:
L20: the paper will not lose its general interest if you use „social insects“ instead of
„social animals“
Reply:
We changed "social insects” as suggested (L20).
Comment 2:
L21-22: A verb is missing in the second sentence…
Reply:
We revised the sentence as the reviewer 1 suggested (L21).
Comment 3:
L72: “can develop” instead of “can be developed”
Reply:
We revised the sentence as suggested by the reviewer 1 (L73).
Comment 4:
L312: “occurred” instead of “was occurred”
Reply:
We changed "occurs" as suggested by the reviewer 1 (L313).
Comment 5:
L324: “is regulated” instead of “was regulated”
Reply:
We changed "is regulated” as suggested (L325).
Society Open
