Computational model of collective nest selection by ants
with heterogeneous acceptance thresholds
Naoki Masuda, Thomas A. O'Shea-Wheller, Carolina Doran and Nigel R. Franks
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140533.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140533
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 December 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 24 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 14 May 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140533.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Mathieu Lihoreau)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors use computational models to examine the implications of heterogeneous acceptance
thresholds in collective nest choice by ants. The study elaborates on a previous model by the
same group (Robinson et al. 2011 PLoS One 6:e19981). Their new (simpler) approach reproduces a
number of empirical observations such as speed-accuracy and speed-cohesion trade-offs, and
thus provides a parsimonious mechanism.
I enjoyed reading this clear and well-written paper. The new ABM is a promising tool for
generating new empirically testable predictions in ants, with potential implications for other
complex biological systems.
My main concern is the almost exclusive focus on the problem of nest selection in ants,
specifically Temnothorax albipennis, with few parallels to honeybees. The relatively narrow
scope is reflected by the very short introduction (half a page) and the reference list in which >
50% of the articles are from the same group. Although I realise that most work on collective
emigration has been conducted on this particular ant species, similar mechanisms are at play in
several other organisms and models already exists. The article could generate broader interest if it
discused more explicitly the relevance of heterogeneous threshold models to other species and
types of collective decisions. The discussion at lines 386-390 is a good start.
Specific comments:
1. L22: to develop “an” analytical …
2. L27: remove “extant”
3. L50: Please define what you mean by “scouts”.
4. L51: Explain briefly speed-accuracy and speed-cohesion trade-offs with examples.
5. L53: Some basic information about collective migration in ants is needed for non specialists. For
instance what is a good site and a poor site for the ants etc...
6. L74: Explain xl and xh first.
7. L126: Please explain the recruitment latency hypothesis in more details.
8. L129: typo -> hypothxesis
9. L182: typo -> numeical
10. Figure 1: Why are thick solid lines green and the others black? This is confusing. Also indicate
“current nest site” above the left hand box.
11. Figure 2: I don’t understand how the number of recruiters for the poor nest sites (blue dotted
line) can become higher than the total number at the poor nest site. Did I miss something?
12. Figure 3: Indicate the number of simulation runs. Same comment for figures 5, 7.
3
13. Figure 4: Re-explain T, P and H in the legend. Same comment for figure 6.
14. Supplementary figure S1: The figure legend should be moved below panel (k). On my PDf
version it is in the middle. Same comment for fig. S6.
Well done to the authors for this nice study.
Mathieu Lihoreau
Research Center on Animal Cognition
University Paul Sabatier, Toulouse
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Ana Duarte)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I enjoyed reading this paper on collective nest choice in individuals with heterogeneous
thresholds. The authors build on previous work that showed a simple threshold mechanism
(where individuals differ in their acceptance thresholds for nest quality) can explain how ant
colonies may be able to accurately select between nests of different quality. Here, the authors
present a thorough analysis of a mathematical model and individual based simulations, showing
that a threshold mechanism can also lead to the speed-accuracy and speed-cohesion trade-offs
observed empirically.
However, I have a few concerns:
1) The authors model individuals as being either high or low-threshold individuals. This is
unlikely to be the case in real colonies. I understand that this approach is used for simplicity and
tractability of the mathematical model, and when the choice is only between two nests of
differing quality, having high vs low thresholds is effectively the same as having thresholds
drawn from a normal distribution. But I still wonder whether normally distributed thresholds
would change the results on trade-offs, at least for some parts of the parameter space. It would
4
strengthen the paper to show that results are robust even when you consider a less structured
colony. It should be at least justified why the authors depart from Robinson et al 2011 in their
approach.
2) Authors should justify better why space is not important in this case. Since the model concerns
nest choice, which is a process that must depend on spatial exploration, why have the authors
chosen to ignore space in this case?
3) The explanation and presentation of the trade-off results is very confusing, and detracts from
the overall quality of the paper. It took me quite a while to figure out what was actually being
shown in the heatplots (figs 4, 6, and similar figures in the supplement). When I read in the
legend of fig.4: “Correlation coefficient between T and P when we varied H”, I expected to see H
as an independent variable in the graph, and only after some effort I understood that the
correlation coefficient shown takes pairs of T and P values, across a range of H. I don't agree with
the use of a Pearson correlation coefficient on the points obtained like this, because this ignores
the effect of H on those values. I believe this is statistically incorrect. Why have the authors not
used a coefficient of multiple correlation? That would be more correct, in my opinion. Also, the
explanation of how the correlations were calculated and effectively how to interpret these graphs
appears much later in Appendix B, whereas it should be in the main text, since this is crucial to
understand the main results.
Minor comments:
4) Overall the paper would benefit from checking the grammar and spelling, I found quite a few
mistakes and typos.
5) when showing averages, please show error bars as well or explain if error bars are too small to
be seen (e.g., fig 3)
6) Explanation of x_h,p,vis should come where it first appears (when leakage is explained, lines
88-92 )
7) Line 178: “the vote for the good nest site and the corresponding number of
recruiter are larger than those for the poor site”. But in fig. 2 the legend indicates the blue dotted
line as 'poor, recruiter', and this line stays above the red dotted line ('good, recruiter'). Probably a
mistake in the legend?
8) Line 374: a = 8 , shouldn't it be zero?
9) Appendix B: line 431, “H = 0, 0.667,...”. Should be 0.0667, probably.
10) Please change axis titles in graphs throughout the paper to include a short description of
variables to make them clear without the reader having to go back to the main text to remind
themselves of what the variable is. For example, in fig 4, the x-axes could read: a, rate at which
ants become recruiters. Even when it's explained in the legend (as in fig. 5) it helps the reader a
lot to see the variable description immediately in the graph.
5
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140533)
07-Apr-2015
Dear Miss Masuda,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Computational model of collective nest selection by
ants with heterogeneous acceptance thresholds") has now received comments from reviewers.
We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 30-Apr-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
6
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aimé
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140533)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140533.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Mathieu Lihoreau)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
7
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
All supporting data are available and clear.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have succesfully addressed my comments. I can now fully endorse the manuscript
for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Well done!
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Ana Duarte)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The paper has improved substantially, it is now much clearer. I understand and accept your
justification for using a Pearson correlation. I would still perform a more thorough proof-reading
of the ms, as there are still a few typos (eg 'Finding statement', instead of 'Funding statement').
8
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140533.R1)
14-May-2015
Dear Miss Masuda,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Computational model of collective nest
selection by ants with heterogeneous acceptance thresholds" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 days. Please contact the
editorial office (emilie.aime@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are likely to be away from e-
mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule, if
comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Appendix A
Response to Reviewer 1
In response to the valuable comments of the referee we have mod-
ified our paper appropriately to address her/his concerns. Below
we give a point-by-point reply to each criticism.
The authors use computational models to examine the implications of hetero-
geneous acceptance thresholds in collective nest choice by ants. The study
elaborates on a previous model by the same group (Robinson et al. 2011
PLoS One 6:e19981). Their new (simpler) approach reproduces a number of
empirical observations such as speed-accuracy and speed-cohesion trade-o<U+FB00>s,
and thus provides a parsimonious mechanism.
I enjoyed reading this clear and well-written paper. The new ABM is a
promising tool for generating new empirically testable predictions in ants,
with potential implications for other complex biological systems.
Thank you for reviewing. We are glad to hear overall positive
evaluations.
My main concern is the almost exclusive focus on the problem of nest se-
lection in ants, specifically Temnothorax albipennis, with few parallels to
honeybees. The relatively narrow scope is reflected by the very short intro-
duction (half a page) and the reference list in which > 50% of the articles are
from the same group. Although I realise that most work on collective emigra-
tion has been conducted on this particular ant species, similar mechanisms
are at play in several other organisms and models already exists. The article
could generate broader interest if it discused more explicitly the relevance
of heterogeneous threshold models to other species and types of collective
decisions. The discussion at lines 386-390 is a good start.
We substantially expanded Introduction as follows:
• In the first paragraph, which was almost entirely renewed,
we explained consensus decision making and quorum sens-
ing by other animals, citing more than ten papers by other
research groups.
• In the third paragraph, we added short discussion on em-
pirical evidence of heterogeneous thresholds in other species
(lines 61–67).
• In the fourth paragraph, we expanded on the goal of the
present study (lines 74–76).
• In the fourth paragraph, we also explained speed-accuracy
and speed-cohesion trade-o<U+FB00>s with examples (lines 77–85).
In discussion, we added two references on heterogeneous thresh-
olds in bees (line 449).
Specific comments: 1. L22: to develop “an” analytical …
Corrected.
2. L27: remove “extant”
Replaced by “existing”.
3. L50: Please define what you mean by “scouts”.
We added the following text (line 93):
“(i.e., ants that proactively search for suitable sites)”
4. L51: Explain briefly speed-accuracy and speed-cohesion trade-o<U+FB00>s with
examples.
We expanded the last paragraph of Introduction to explain the
speed-accuracy and speed-cohesion trade-o<U+FB00>s with examples (lines
77–85).
5. L53: Some basic information about collective migration in ants is needed
for non specialists. For instance what is a good site and a poor site for the
ants etc...
We added the following text (lines 88–91):
“Experimentally, two (or more) nests of di<U+FB00>erent qualities are
presented to a colony, with the quality of each nest as the ants
perceive it depending on floor area, ceiling height, darkness and
entrance size [31]. Even if the current nest is kept intact, as we
assume in the following models, colonies emigrate if a su<U+FB03>ciently
better nest site is presented [32].”
6. L74: Explain xl and xh first.
We moved the explanation before equations (1) and (2). We also
slightly expanded the explanation of xh,c , xl,g,rec , xh,g,rec , xl,g,com ,
and xh,g,com in the same place.
7. L126: Please explain the recruitment latency hypothesis in more details.
We expanded this part as follows (lines 177–178):
“recruitment latency hypothesis, according to which ants visiting
a nest site hesitate for longer before recruiting nest mates if the
site is of low quality.”
8. L129: typo <U+2192> hypothxesis
Corrected.
9. L182: typo <U+2192> numeical
Corrected.
10. Figure 1: Why are thick solid lines green and the others black? This is
confusing. Also indicate “current nest site” above the left hand box.
We changed the colour from green to black. We also indicated
“the current nest site” as suggested by the referee.
11. Figure 2: I don’t understand how the number of recruiters for the poor
nest sites (blue dotted line) can become higher than the total number at the
poor nest site. Did I miss something?
Sorry for the mistake. The thin solid (red) line and the thin
dotted (blue) line should have been swapped. We corrected it.
12. Figure 3: Indicate the number of simulation runs. Same comment for
figures 5, 7.
We added “The reseults shown in this and the following figures
are calculated on the basis of 104 runs.” to the caption of the
former figure 3 (figure 4 in the revised version). We did not add
the explanation to each figure because all the figures (not only
the former figures 3, 5, and 7 as pointed out by the referee) were
based on the same number of runs. The number of runs is also
explained in the main text.
13. Figure 4: Re-explain T, P and H in the legend. Same comment for figure
6.
Done (figure 6 and 8 in the revised version). We did the same
amendment to Figures S1, S3, S4, S5, S6 and S7.
14. Supplementary figure S1: The figure legend should be moved below panel
(k). On my PDf version it is in the middle. Same comment for fig. S6.
Corrected.
Response to Reviewer 2
In response to the valuable comments of the referee we have mod-
ified our paper appropriately to address her/his concerns. Below
we give a point-by-point reply to each criticism.
I enjoyed reading this paper on collective nest choice in individuals with
heterogeneous thresholds. The authors build on previous work that showed
a simple threshold mechanism (where individuals di<U+FB00>er in their acceptance
thresholds for nest quality) can explain how ant colonies may be able to ac-
curately select between nests of di<U+FB00>erent quality. Here, the authors present a
thorough analysis of a mathematical model and individual based simulations,
showing that a threshold mechanism can also lead to the speed-accuracy and
speed-cohesion trade-o<U+FB00>s observed empirically.
Thank you for reviewing. We are glad to hear overall positive
evaluations.
However, I have a few concerns:
1) The authors model individuals as being either high or low-threshold indi-
viduals. This is unlikely to be the case in real colonies. I understand that this
approach is used for simplicity and tractability of the mathematical model,
and when the choice is only between two nests of di<U+FB00>ering quality, having
high vs low thresholds is e<U+FB00>ectively the same as having thresholds drawn
from a normal distribution. But I still wonder whether normally distributed
thresholds would change the results on trade-o<U+FB00>s, at least for some parts of
the parameter space. It would strengthen the paper to show that results are
robust even when you consider a less structured colony. It should be at least
justified why the authors depart from Robinson et al 2011 in their approach.
As long as the number of new nest sites is two, the results will
stay exactly the same if we employ a normal distribution as we
did in Robinson et al. PLOS ONE (2011). To illustrate this
point to guide readers, we inserted a paragraph (second paragraph
in section 2.1; lines 112–119) and a schematic figure (Fig. 1).
Similarly, we added text (lines 440–442) and a schematic figure
(Fig. S8) when we briefly discussed the three-nest case in the
discussion section.
2) authors should justify better why space is not important in this case.
Since the model concerns nest choice, which is a process that must depend
on spatial exploration, why have the authors chosen to ignore space in this
case?
There is a trade-o<U+FB00> between the complexity of the model and
its analytical tractability. In this paper, we chose to neglect the
space. This choice enables us to gain a deeper analytical insight
into the phenomenon, while keeping main features of the collec-
tive nest choice behaviour (e.g., threshold response and speed-
accuracy trade-o<U+FB00>s). We are not saying space is not important.
Neglect of the space is our choice. This point is stated in Intro-
duction as follows (lines 71–73): “The goal of the present study
is to explore this mechanism further, by introducing non-spatial
mathematical models taking a minimalist approach (i.e., with a
relatively small number of variables and parameters)”.
3) the explanation and presentation of the trade-o<U+FB00> results is very confusing,
and detracts from the overall quality of the paper. It took me quite a while
to figure out what was actually being shown in the heatplots (figs 4, 6,
and similar figures in the supplement). When I read in the legend of fig.4:
“Correlation coe<U+FB03>cient between T and P when we varied H”, I expected to
see H as an independent variable in the graph, and only after some e<U+FB00>ort
I understood that the correlation coe<U+FB03>cient shown takes pairs of T and P
values, across a range of H. I don’t agree with the use of a Pearson correlation
coe<U+FB03>cient on the points obtained like this, because this ignores the e<U+FB00>ect of
H on those values. I believe this is statistically incorrect. Why have the
authors not used a coe<U+FB03>cient of multiple correlation? That would be more
correct, in my opinion. Also, the explanation of how the correlations were
calculated and e<U+FB00>ectively how to interpret these graphs appears much later
in Appendix B, whereas it should be in the main text, since this is crucial to
understand the main results.
We admit that the presentation was confusing. To help under-
standing Figs. 6 and 8 (Figs. 4 and 6 in the previous version)
and similar supplementary figures, we added a schematic figure
(Fig. 5) and a paragraph (third paragraph in section 3.2; lines
249–259) to explain what we did there.
In Fig. 6 (Fig. 4 in the previous version), H is not an independent
variable. It controls trade-o<U+FB00>s between the speed and accuracy
(when the other parameters are set such that the speed-accuracy
trade-o<U+FB00>s do occur, which is not the case for the particular param-
eter values used in Fig. 4 though). We measured the correlation
coe<U+FB03>cient to succinctly assess the existence and extent of speed-
accuracy trade-o<U+FB00>s. Therefore, we do not believe that a multiple
correlation coe<U+FB03>cient is required. We believe that Fig. 5 and the
added text make this point clear.
Minor comments: 4) overall the paper would benefit from checking the gram-
mar and spelling, I found quite a few mistakes and typos.
We checked throughout the manuscript and ran a spell checker
to correct mistakes.
5) when showing averages, please show error bars as well or explain if error
bars are too small to be seen (e.g., fig 3)
We added error bars to Figs. 4, 7, 9, S2, S4, S6, and S7 with the
explanation in the captions of these figures.
6) explanation of xh,p,vis should come where it first appears (when leakage is
explained, lines 88-92)
We moved the explanation to lines 125–127.
7) Line 178: “the vote for the good nest site and the corresponding number
of recruiter are larger than those for the poor site”. But in fig. 2 the legend
indicates the blue dotted line as ’poor, recruiter’, and this line stays above
the red dotted line (’good, recruiter’). Probably a mistake in the legend?
Sorry for the mistake. The thin solid (red) line and the thin
dotted (blue) line should have been swapped. We corrected it.
8) line 374: a = 8, shouldn’t it be zero?
Indeed, it should be a = 0. Corrected. Thank you for careful
reading.
9) Appendix B: line 431, “H = 0, 0.667, . . .”. Should be 0.0667, probably.
Corrected.
10) please change axis titles in graphs throughout the paper to include a
short description of variables to make them clear without the reader having
to go back to the main text to remind themselves of what the variable is.
For example, in fig 4, the x-axes could read: a, rate at which ants become
recruiters. Even when it’s explained in the legend (as in fig. 5) it helps the
reader a lot to see the variable description immediately in the graph.
Done (Figs. 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, and S1–S7).
Society Open
