First evidence of hybridization between golden jackal (Canis
aureus) and domestic dog (Canis familiaris) as revealed by
genetic markers
Ana Galov , Elena Fabbri, Romolo Caniglia, Haidi Arbanasic, Silvana Lapalombella,
Tihomir Florijancic, Ivica Boškovic, Marco Galaverni and Ettore Randi
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150450.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150450
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 September 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 3 November 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 3 November 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150450.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Lorna Kennedy)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, I can access the supporting data
However, the methods could not be reproduced without having to refer to many other papers
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
First evidence of hybridisation between golden jackal (Canis aureus) and domestic dog (Canis
familiaris) as revealed by genetic markers
A very interesting paper, making good use of multiple genetic tests to identify the hybrid origin
of three animals.
This paper needs some attention to the English. I have picked up some errors, but there are more
to be found.
Line 21: “have been” not “were”
Line 51: European golden jackals were first reported in 1491…
Line 79: “have been” not “were”
Line 80: in only, not only in
Line 82: “Other functional mutations that could be used for determining……
Line 85: delete “ and could also be used”
Line 117, 118: JHR and DHR are not useful as short names. Please delete from entire paper, and
use “jackal” and “dog” instead.
Line124: list all primer sequences, Annealing temperature and product size for all primer pairs in
a table
Line 131-136: this section needs the English correcting
Line179: “Since” NOT “because”
Table S1: I could not find this table.
Please list which alleles were found in both or just one species.
Line230: “the only exceptions are the three putative hybrids….
Line 238 and elsewhere: should “a priori” be in italics??
line 263: product sizes should be in primer table in methods.
Line273: “…..in dogs, but not in the same haplotype, (Lorna…..”
Line 275: the other alleles and haplotypes present in the hybrids, were not seen in this golden
jackal cohort, but are common in dogs,
Line 320: the genetic diversity in golden jackals may be lower than in your cohort of mixed breed
dogs. However, I suspect it is higher than many individual dog breeds.
Line 405: document NOT documented
Figs 4, 5: please use dog, jackal and hybrids not the strange short versions!
Tables 1, 2: do not use DHR, JHR. Please use two decimal places for the numbers if possible
Table 3: please add columns for “Number of animals with the haplotype” and “Number of
homozygotes”
Please add a table with the haplotypes found in the mixed breed dogs
I think you can drop the use of “putative” for the hybrids in all the figures and tables, since you
are clearly showing they are hybrids.
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, the supplementary data files are clearly and easily accessible. I'm not sure why the raw STR
data from the third hybrid wasn't included in Table S2. Additional sequence data has been
uploaded to NCBI GenBank for use by other researchers.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In this well-written, strong paper, Galov and colleagues make a compelling case for having
identified three cases of hybridization between golden jackals and dog. This work provides a
foundation for further research on hybridization, and the potential causes and implications of
such events. The paper itself is clearly written and the methods are clear enough that any
interested party could repeat the analyses. I only have a few specific comments concerning the
text.
Line 83. This may be nitpicky, but the 3bp deletion is not melanistic, rather it causes a melanistic
phenotype because it is dominantly inherited.
Use of the terms JHR and DHR is non-intuitive. Why not just state jackal reference and dog
reference?
Lines 187-188. I think a parenthesis is missing from somewhere?
Line 224. Why would we expect higher heterozygosity in dogs? Can you cite a source? I know
you mention this later in the discussion but it should (also) be here.
Line 228. I think 35,8% should be 35.8%
Line 235. Is there a typo in the range of Qj values?
Line 258. Don’t you mean according to the sequencing or genotyping of the K locus? Based solely
on the coat color phenotype, and assuming the melanism was caused by the K locus, the K locus
could be heterozygous or homozygous for the deletion since it is dominant.
Table 2. If you’re going to still use DHR and JHR then you should restate what they stand for, or
refer the reader to the caption for Table 1.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150450)
26-Oct-2015
Dear Dr Galov
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150450 entitled
"First evidence of hybridisation between golden jackal (Canis aureus) and domestic dog (Canis
familiaris) as revealed by genetic markers" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find
the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150450
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
5
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 04-Nov-2015). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150450)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
2nd November, 2015
Dear Ms Aime and other Editors,
thank you very much for your decision and valuable referees’ suggestions. Enclosed
please find our manuscript revised according to suggestions. Our replies to each of
the points raised by the referees are listed below (in blue italic font):
Response to Referees
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
First evidence of hybridisation between golden jackal (Canis aureus) and domestic dog
(Canis familiaris) as revealed by genetic markers
A very interesting paper, making good use of multiple genetic tests to identify the hybrid
origin of three animals.
This paper needs some attention to the English. I have picked up some errors, but there are
more to be found.
Line 21: “have been” not “were”
Response: CORRECTED
Line 51: European golden jackals were first reported in 1491…
Response: CORRECTED
Line 79: “have been” not “were”
Response: CORRECTED
Line 80: in only, not only in
Response: CORRECTED
Line 82: “Other functional mutations that could be used for determining……
Response: CORRECTED
Line 85: delete “ and could also be used”
Response: CORRECTED
Line 117, 118: JHR and DHR are not useful as short names. Please delete from entire paper,
and use “jackal” and “dog” instead.
Response: CORRECTED in the entire manuscript (lines 117, 118, 159, 424, 429, 438 in
the first version of submitted manuscript), including tables and figures
Line124: list all primer sequences, Annealing temperature and product size for all primer
pairs in a table
Response: we added a supplementary tables with the required information: Table S1
(mtDNA, Y chromosome marker, K locus and DLA-DRB1, DQA1 and DQB1 genes) and
Table S2 (microsatellite loci)
Line 131-136: this section needs the English correcting
Response: CHANGED and checked by a native English speaker (lines 133-135 in
revised version)
Line179: “Since” NOT “because”
Response: CORRECTED
Table S1: I could not find this table.
Response: We changed to “(Table S3, Electronic Supplementary Material)” (line 224)
to make it clear that it can be found in Supplementary material (Table S1 changed to
Table S3, since we added to more Supplementary tables – Table S1 and Table S2).
We added that also for all supplementary Tables and Figure.
Please list which alleles were found in both or just one species.
Response: In Table S3 basic information regarding microsatellite results is listed
(including number of private alleles).
Line230: “the only exceptions are the three putative hybrids….
Response: CORRECTED
Line 238 and elsewhere: should “a priori” be in italics??
Response: It seems that it depends on the journal’s practice. We changed it in italics
in the entire manuscript (lines 160, 170, 238, 330), as asked by the reviewer.
line 263: product sizes should be in primer table in methods.
Response: We deleted the sentence (Amplified exon 2 sequences were 246 bp long
for DQA1 locus and 267 bp long for DQB1 and DRB1 loci.) and added the sizes of
PCR products in Tables S1.
Line273: “…..in dogs, but not in the same haplotype, (Lorna…..”
Response: CORRECTED
Line 275: the other alleles and haplotypes present in the hybrids, were not seen in this
golden jackal cohort, but are common in dogs,
Response: CORRECTED
Line 320: the genetic diversity in golden jackals may be lower than in your cohort of mixed
breed dogs. However, I suspect it is higher than many individual dog breeds.
Response: We commented on this in the paper, adding relevant references (lines
323-325).
Line 405: document NOT documented
Response: CORRECTED
Figs 4, 5: please use dog, jackal and hybrids not the strange short versions!
Response: CORRECTED (in entire manuscript)
Tables 1, 2: do not use DHR, JHR. Please use two decimal places for the numbers if possible
Response: DHR and JHR CORRECTED (in entire manuscript). It is important for Table
1 to leave three decimal places since some values differ only in the 3 rd decimal place.
Two decimal places are used in Table 2.
Table 3: please add columns for “Number of animals with the haplotype” and “Number of
homozygotes”
Response: ADDED in Table 3 as a single column (No of homozygotes in parethesis)
Please add a table with the haplotypes found in the mixed breed dogs
Response: There was no need to genotype dog MHC genes since hundreds of dog
individuals have been genotyped on different MHC genes in numerous studies and
data are available from papers (e.g. Kenney et al. 2007) or Immuno Polymorphism
(IPD) – MHC Database, by contacting a curator for Canines (DLA) Dr Lorna J Kennedy
(in contrast to golden jackals, that have not been genotyped on MHC before this
investigation). Therefore, we do not have a database with haplotypes found in dogs,
but we found haplotype matches of two hybrids (S21 and S22) in a paper of
Kennedy et al. 2007. For the hybrid 60c haplotype, we wrote to Dr. Kennedy and she
searched the IPD database and informed us about the results (she found that
particular haplotype in Croatian sheepdog and border terrier samples). We cited
those sources in the text and Table 3.
I think you can drop the use of “putative” for the hybrids in all the figures and tables, since
you are clearly showing they are hybrids.
Response: CORRECTED
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
In this well-written, strong paper, Galov and colleagues make a compelling case for having
identified three cases of hybridization between golden jackals and dog. This work provides
a foundation for further research on hybridization, and the potential causes and
implications of such events. The paper itself is clearly written and the methods are clear
enough that any interested party could repeat the analyses. I only have a few specific
comments concerning the text.
Line 83. This may be nitpicky, but the 3bp deletion is not melanistic, rather it causes a
melanistic phenotype because it is dominantly inherited.
Response: This is true, but the term has already been used in papers (e.g. Caniglia et
al. 2013.), and the similar term “the melanistic K locus mutation” is used in e.g.
Anderson et al. 2009., so it seems rooted in the literature dealing with this issue.
Therefore, we defined this terminology in the text as soon as it was first referred to
(lines 82-85).
Use of the terms JHR and DHR is non-intuitive. Why not just state jackal reference and dog
reference?
Response: CORRECTED (as asked by both reviewers)
Lines 187-188. I think a parenthesis is missing from somewhere?
Response: CORRECTED
Line 224. Why would we expect higher heterozygosity in dogs? Can you cite a source? I
know you mention this later in the discussion but it should (also) be here.
Response: We are not sure that it is appropriate to engage into discussion here in
Results section. No study compared golden jackal’s and dog’s genetic diversities
before, so we can only cite comparison between some other wild canid species and
dogs, which we did in the Discussion section.
Line 228. I think 35,8% should be 35.8%
Response: CORRECTED
Line 235. Is there a typo in the range of Qj values?
Response: CORRECTED to “Jackals were assigned to the other cluster with Qj = 0.999
and a qJ ranging from 0.994 to 0.999.” (line 235).
Line 258. Don’t you mean according to the sequencing or genotyping of the K locus? Based
solely on the coat color phenotype, and assuming the melanism was caused by the K locus,
the K locus could be heterozygous or homozygous for the deletion since it is dominant.
Response: CORRECTED, we deleted “According to coat colour information”
Table 2. If you’re going to still use DHR and JHR then you should restate what they stand
for, or refer the reader to the caption for Table 1.
Response: CORRECTED, we deleted DHR and JHR from the entire manuscript
(including tables and figures) and used dog and jackal instead.
ADDITIONAL CHANGES MADE TO THE MANUSCRIPT
-line 92: We corrected “..in a individual …” to “in an individual…”
-line 206: We corrected the typo in the sentence “… from the The Immuno
Polymorphism (IPD) …” (we deleted the surplus “The”)
-we corrected reference in Table 3 to: “**[54]”
-we also added Figure S1 in Electronic Supplementary Material, which shows
pedigrees of the three hybrids, to better visualise their lines of descent
- we additionally corrected Figure captions:
In Figure 4 we corrected “grey dots” to “blue dots”, and “white dots” to “red dots”
In Figure 5 we corrected “the dark grey” to “red”, and “light grey” to “green”.
Society Open
