Phenotypic variation and differentiated gene expression of
Australian plants in response to declining rainfall
Haylee D’Agui, William Fowler, Sim Lin Lim, Neal Enright and Tianhua He
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160637.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160637
Review timeline
Original submission: 26 August 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 5 October 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 October 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160637.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Richard Corlett)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, but some of the Supplementary information needs to be in the main text.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a well-written study of an extremely important question, making clever use of the unusual
reproductive traits of some Australian shrubs. I do have a number of significant concerns, but I
hope they can be dealt with.
1. The core of the paper is a comparison between plants grown from seeds from
populations established in drought and normal years. It is therefore essential that readers can be
confident that these short-term drought effects are the only significant differences between these
two groups. No real attempt is made to convince us of this and it needs to be – and in the main
text, not just the supplementary materials. How close are the populations compared with pollen
and seed dispersal distances? How do their long-term rainfall records compare? Soil? Other plant
species? Etc.
2. The Discussion seems to favor natural selection on plant genes as a mechanism, but I do
not find the arguments for this completely convincing. Epigenetic changes would seem just as
likely, and purely phenotypic effects are also possible. Epigenetic changes would be ideal for
tracking short-term changes, such as seem to be typical in this region, but less use in tracking
directional climate change, so this issue needs more discussion.
3. Regardless of the mechanism, it is not obvious how the demonstrated short-term
responses are relevant to anthropogenic climate change. Perhaps these single events exhausted
the adaptive capacity of the populations? In this regard, I am not sure if ‘adaptation… to
declining rainfall’ in the title is an accurate description of the study, since this was not, as far as I
can see, demonstrated here.
Richard Corlett, Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, but I would like a bit more detail in the methods, especially in relation to the GO analysis
(this is mentioned in my review).
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached file. (Appendix A)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160637)
21-Sep-2016
Dear Ms D'Agui,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Rapid evolutionary adaptation of Australian plants to
declining rainfall") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise
your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 14-Oct-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
4
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160637
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
The referees are generally supportive but raise a number of technical concerns. Referee 1 is
concerned about possible epigenetic effects following seed collection that need to be addressed.
Referee 2 cautions against over-interpretation of the results and provides useful pointers for how
to deal with this issue.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a well-written study of an extremely important question, making clever use of the unusual
reproductive traits of some Australian shrubs. I do have a number of significant concerns, but I
hope they can be dealt with.
1. The core of the paper is a comparison between plants grown from seeds from
populations established in drought and normal years. It is therefore essential that readers can be
confident that these short-term drought effects are the only significant differences between these
two groups. No real attempt is made to convince us of this and it needs to be – and in the main
text, not just the supplementary materials. How close are the populations compared with pollen
and seed dispersal distances? How do their long-term rainfall records compare? Soil? Other plant
species? Etc.
2. The Discussion seems to favor natural selection on plant genes as a mechanism, but I do
not find the arguments for this completely convincing. Epigenetic changes would seem just as
likely, and purely phenotypic effects are also possible. Epigenetic changes would be ideal for
tracking short-term changes, such as seem to be typical in this region, but less use in tracking
directional climate change, so this issue needs more discussion.
3. Regardless of the mechanism, it is not obvious how the demonstrated short-term
responses are relevant to anthropogenic climate change. Perhaps these single events exhausted
the adaptive capacity of the populations? In this regard, I am not sure if ‘adaptation… to
declining rainfall’ in the title is an accurate description of the study, since this was not, as far as I
can see, demonstrated here.
Richard Corlett, Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached file.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160637)
See Appendix B.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160637.R1)
18-Oct-2016
Dear Ms D'Agui,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Phenotypic variation and
differentiated gene expression of Australian plants in response to declining rainfall" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
The authors have done a good job addressing the issues raised by referees.
MS ID: RSOS-160637
Authors: D’Agui H et al. (Curtin University)
Title: Rapid evolutionary adaptation of Australian plants to declining rainfall.
This manuscript reports an elegantly designed experiment that exploits (i)
government-held data on fire activity in the native bushland landscape of
Western Australia, (ii) long-term and medium-term climate data and (iii) the fact
that seeds of Banksia and Hakea are retained on trees until the next fire, to look
at the effect of low rainfall during seed set on the expression of drought
tolerance in the seedlings derived from these seeds. The results suggest that
seeds that were set during winters with below-average rainfall tended to be
more drought-tolerant (exhibiting morphological adaptation/acclimation and
lower mortality) than those that were set during winters with average or above-
average rainfall. An expression analysis in Banksia hookeriana indicated that
there was differential expression of a range of genes from many ontological
groupings. The main findings of the expression analysis were that (i) under
drought conditions, seedlings from both high and low rainfall seedlots exhibited
down-regulation of cellular pathways related to growth, development and
metabolism and (2) the response to drought appeared to be via different
hormonal pathways in the two ‘sources’ of seed.
The paper is well-written, although I feel the authors should be wary of over-
interpreting their results.
There should be some clarification of what the authors mean by ‘adaptation’.
This word is used quite freely throughout the paper and does not differentiate
between genetic adaptation at the DNA level, phenotypic plasticity (differential
expression) and epigenetic changes (heritable or otherwise).
The idea of looking at the prevailing climate when seeds were set is an excellent
one. Perhaps some thought needs to be given to whether differences between
LoR and HiR seedlings’ responses to drought relate to the mother plant (i.e.,
differences inherited from the mother, as the authors seem to claim) or whether
they relate only to the seed (i.e., likely epigenetic changes that happened while
the seed was ‘in utero’, so to speak), in which case it is difficult to determine at
this stage whether the differences are heritable.
The authors report significant differences between the means as well as
significant differences between the medians of phenotypic traits. In most cases
there was no significant differences in either. In four examples (under drought)
there were significant differences in the means and medians; in three examples
there were significant differences in the medians but not the mean values of HiR
vs LoR. While there is likely nothing wrong with this, it suggests that the data
are not particularly strong. In Hakea costata, there were significant differences
in LMA between HiR and LoR in both the droughted and undroughted
treatments, but the leaves became thinner under the drought conditions than
under the watered treatments.
In lines 266-269 of the Discussion, the authors claim that their transcriptome
analysis showed that phenotype changes were related to differential expression
of genes. I don’t think that the study demonstrated this relationship at all. There
was no cause-effect, no functional analysis. The study did demonstrate some
small differences in a few phenotypic traits and some differential gene
expression between well-watered and droughted plants. Furthermore, in the
same sentence the authors claim that the adaptive mechanism is heritable. As
queried above, I don’t think the authors have demonstrated heritability. Any
differences in gene expression and/or phenotypic traits might have been set up
in the embryo while the seed was forming on the tree, rather than coming from
the parental gametes.
Paragraph starting at line 271: I think that the authors are drawing a long bow
here. I do not think they have shown, as they claim, that climate changes drive
adaptive morphological change – there is a weak signal of morphological change
in some species, and a weak signal of physiological adaptation. But, depending
on their definition of ‘adaptive’ (i.e., heritable?) a reader might infer that the
changes observed in this study are heritable. This has not been demonstrated.
The discussion talks about drought as part of a changing climate. There is no
mention in the discussion about the impact of high temperature. This might be
worth mentioning briefly, as often drought and heat occur together and cause
rapid death in trees.
FIGURES
There are two ‘Figure 1’, one ‘Figure 3’ and no ‘Figure 2’. I am assuming that
‘Figure 1’ is ‘full water’ and ‘Figure 2’ is ‘drought’.
The caption to Figure 3 needs to be improved to make it clearer that these are
the mortality rates at the conclusion of the experiment, after 3-6 months of
drought. Otherwise it is a bit confusing for the reader to see that the control
plants have a higher mortality than the droughted plants. Figures 3b and 3c do
not show any significance levels or standard error bars. These should be
included if you are going to make claims of significance (e.g., line 218).
In Figs 3B-D, it might be better to call them ‘HiR seeds’ or ‘HiR origin’ etc., rather
than ‘HiR sites’ (just a thought).
In line 3 of the caption to Figure 3, why are you saying it is ‘simulated’ drought?
Minor corrections:
Introduction
Line 65: insert comma after ‘years’
Lines 78-81: Meaning of sentence unclear – needs rephrasing.
Line 90: perhaps replace ‘simultaneously’ with ‘en masse’
Line 108 – provide the number (or range of numbers) of stands
Materials and Methods
Lines 114 & 116: The seed were germinated at 15oC. What temperature(s) were
the plants grown at? Often drought would be accompanied by high
temperatures – what was your ‘controlled’ temperature or range of
temperatures?
Line157: Banksia hookeriana was chosen for expression analysis because of its
known susceptibility to drought. Figure 3 suggests that it is actually less
susceptible to drought than the other species. I am guessing that there were no
data available for the other species at the time that a decision had to be made
about which species to do the genomic work on?
Line 158: change ‘in to’ to ‘into’.
Results
Line 199: The last sentence of this paragraph is repeated from the previous
paragraph.
Lines 201-210: This paragraph draws generalisations from Table 2 that are not
very ‘general’. Really the only ‘generality’ in Table 2 is in relation to water
content per unit root length. Banksia leptophylla barely shows any significant
differences. In Banksia hookeriana LMA might be significantly different. The P
value at which statistics are considered significant in this Table is 0.1; only
Hakea displays trait differences with significance values below 0.05.
Line 208 (and elsewhere in document): the authors frequently use comparative
terms such as ‘smaller’ and ‘lower’, but do not make it clear what the comparison
is between (ie, smaller/lower THAN WHAT?).
Line 216: Change ‘ For the three species …. , seedlings from LoR populations had
…’ to ‘At the end of the experiment (i.e., after eight months), seedlings from LoR
populations (Fig. 3C) had …’
Line 220: I think you mean Fig 3c and 3d, rather than 2c and 2d (since these do
not exist). Also in figure three you use capital letters (e.g., Fig 3A), but in the text
you use lowercase letter. I am sure there is a style (capital or lowercase) that the
journal would prefer.
Line 227: what is ‘t’ (e.g., t > 2)?
Line 229: change ‘Onthology’ to ‘Ontology’
Lines 234 - 237: make sure it is clear that the ‘significant expression change’ in
drought conditions is in comparison to populations grown under control
conditions.
Line 243: change ‘was’ to ‘were’
Line 236 (in reference to table 3): what is the difference between ‘cell death’ and
‘programmed cell death’?
Lines 277-278: This sentence needs to be clarified, both in expression and in
what the authors are implying. ‘ … seedlings of B. leptophylla and H. costata from
populations that had been filtered by drought (i.e., LoR) developed higher LMA
than HiR seedlings when growing under water-deficit conditions but not when
growing under control conditions.’
Paragraph starting line 287:
What do the authors mean by ‘cellular pathways of stress avoidance’ (give
example). Perhaps change ‘ensure survival’ to ‘promote survival’ (since survival
is rarely ensured).
Line 294: change ‘were able to activate’ to ‘up-regulated’
Lines 302-303: what is the effect of the modification of transcriptional regulators
etc. … Would it be fair to say that increased sensitivity to low jasmonic acid
would result in the same response as an increase in jasmonic acid? So even
though the plants appear to be using different hormonal pathways, the end
result is the same. Would this be correct? If so, it might be worth mentioning.
Line 309: which two cellular pathways? Degradation and recycling?
Line 309: lower mortality than what?
Line 312: I think we need an understanding of what ‘adaptation’ is – does it
include acclimation/changes in expression? Has ‘adaptation’ occurred from
standing variation or are we observing temporary (or permanent) epigenetic
changes?
Lines 316-318: Do you have any direct evidence that drought selects for
homozygosity of salicyclic acid biosynthesis? You may have to tone this
statement down a bit.
Line 319: change ‘homozyotous’ to ‘homozygous’.
Lines 324 – 328:This sentence should perhaps be rephrased. (E.G., The temporal
and spatial heterogeneity of selection, suggested by this study, together with
high gene flow (41, 19), might lead to ..). It is still unclear whether we are
looking at rapid ‘adaptation’ or acclimation (change in gene expression).
Line 333: Have you really demonstrated adaptive evolution through natural
selection? Need to design an experiment to demonstrate transgenerational
inheritance.
Line 341: change ‘for’ to ‘that allows a physiologically beneficial’.
Lines 341-342: ‘adaptive genetic variation to rainfall’ is poor English. Rephrase.
Lines 348-349: change ‘a lower population genetic variation in LoR populations’
to ‘lower genetic variation within LoR populations’
Lines 350-351: change to ‘ … is important because the capacity to respond
favourably to stress requires a balance of growth and survival’.
Line 358: place comma after ‘selection’; change ‘unstressed’ to ‘favourable’
Line 360: think about whether it is ‘adaptation’ or ‘acclimation’ (?)
Table 1 caption: Be more descriptive in what you mean by ‘overall difference’.
What does this ‘difference’ encapsulate?
Table 3: In the caption to table 3, clarify the basis on which you claim the
differences are ‘significant’ (P level or equivalent) and what level of change in
expression was observed (e.g., two-fold upregulation, 100-fold down regulation
etc.). Also, what constitutes ‘starvation’ in a plant (upregulated during drought
in seedlings of LoR origin)? Nutrient deficiency? Sunlight deficiency? Were all
of the GO terms used in the GO analysis relevant to plants?
Supplementary Material:
Table S3 – explain what the water percentages mean.
L108: delete comma.
Line 122: Change first four words to ‘Differential gene expression’; change ‘on’ to
‘using’.
Line 131: define DEPC water.
Line 139: lower case for ‘total’
Line 166: put “N” inside parentheses
Line 171: change ‘are’ to ‘were’ (in both instances)
Line 173: change ‘is’ to ‘of’
Line 182: There are hundreds of GO terms. Did you select particular classes of
GO terms? If so, how did you select them? How did you make the assessment
that the GO terms were ‘enriched’? What was your set of reference sequences –
the entire KEGG databases?
Line 185: At what level was ‘statistical significance’ inferred?
Rapid evolutionary adaptation of Australian plants to declining rainfall
Haylee D’Agui1*, William Fowler1, Sim Lin Lim1 Neal Enright2, Tianhua He1
1Department of Environment and Agriculture, Curtin University, Perth, WA 6845, Australia
2School of Veterinary and Life Sciences, Murdoch University, Perth, WA 6150, Australia
MS ID: RSOS-160637
Response to Referees
Reviewer 1:
Richard Corlett, Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences
This is a well-written study of an extremely important question, making clever use of the unusual
reproductive traits of some Australian shrubs. I do have a number of significant concerns, but I
hope they can be dealt with.
1. The core of the paper is a comparison between plants grown from seeds from populations
established in drought and normal years. It is therefore essential that readers can be confident
that these short-term drought effects are the only significant differences between these two
groups. No real attempt is made to convince us of this and it needs to be – and in the main
text, not just the supplementary materials. How close are the populations compared with
pollen and seed dispersal distances? How do their long-term rainfall records compare? Soil?
Other plant species? Etc.
[Author]: Short-term drought effects are indeed the only significant differences between
these two groups. We have added more details in the main text on site selection to
explain the otherwise similar vegetation, soil substrate, and long-term climate
experiences between these two groups. It now reads as:
“These sites are geographically proximate with similar species composition (typical
Kwongan vegetation dominated by species of the families Proteaceae and Myrtaceae),
and with similar soil substrate (white sand). All sites have experienced a similar long-
term climate except for fire history as fires are usually patchy in the area (Miller et al.
2007), while the distances between sites (> 4 km) are sufficiently large so that genes are
not immediately mixed between sites through pollen and seed dispersal after fire.”
2. The Discussion seems to favor natural selection on plant genes as a mechanism, but I do not
find the arguments for this completely convincing. Epigenetic changes would seem just as
likely, and purely phenotypic effects are also possible. Epigenetic changes would be ideal for
tracking short-term changes, such as seem to be typical in this region, but less use in tracking
directional climate change, so this issue needs more discussion.
[Author]: We agree that both natural selection on plant genes and heritable epigenetic
processes are important mechanisms for evolutionary adaptation. Our current research
is not able to distinguish whether the observed phenotypic variation and differentiated
gene expression was the result of natural selection on genes, or as the result of heritable
epigenetic changes. As a consequence, we have revised the tone of the discussion, and
raise the possibility of heritable epigenetic processes through, for example, DNA
methylation in generating plasticity as equally possible mechanisms ( Lines 282-290).
3. Regardless of the mechanism, it is not obvious how the demonstrated short-term responses
are relevant to anthropogenic climate change. Perhaps these single events exhausted the
adaptive capacity of the populations? In this regard, I am not sure if ‘adaptation… to declining
rainfall’ in the title is an accurate description of the study, since this was not, as far as I can
see, demonstrated here.
[Author]: We agree that our study was not designed to predict further capacity of
adaptation. We have changed the title to a more descriptive one to reflect that. The title
now reads as: “Phenotypic variation and differentiated gene expression of Australian
plants in response to declining rainfall”.
This manuscript reports an elegantly designed experiment that exploits (i) government-held data
on fire activity in the native bushland landscape of Western Australia, (ii) long-term and medium-
term climate data and (iii) the fact that seeds of Banksia and Hakea are retained on trees until the
next fire, to look at the effect of low rainfall during seed set on the expression of drought tolerance
in the seedlings derived from these seeds. The results suggest that seeds that were set during
winters with below-average rainfall tended to be more drought-tolerant (exhibiting morphological
adaptation/acclimation and lower mortality) than those that were set during winters with
average or above average rainfall. An expression analysis in Banksia hookeriana indicated that
there was differential expression of a range of genes from many ontological groupings. The main
findings of the expression analysis were that (i) under drought conditions, seedlings from both high
and low rainfall seed lots exhibited down-regulation of cellular pathways related to growth,
development and metabolism and (2) the response to drought appeared to be via different
hormonal pathways in the two ‘sources’ of seed.
1. The paper is well-written, although I feel the authors should be wary of over interpreting their
results.
[Author]: We changed the title to accurately reflect the results; we also raise the
possibility of heritable epigenetic processes as mechanisms of observed phenotypic
variation and differentiated gene expression.
2. There should be some clarification of what the authors mean by ‘adaptation’. This word is used
quite freely throughout the paper and does not differentiate between genetic adaptation at the
DNA level, phenotypic plasticity (differential expression) and epigenetic changes (heritable or
otherwise).
[Author]: We took an ecological definition of “adaptation” - A change in structure,
function, or behavior by which a species or individual improves its chance of survival in a
specific environment. Therefore, by adaptation, we mean that we have observed
phenotypic/physiological change, and differentiated genetic expression that could
promote survival of a species in a changed environment. We have added this definition
into the manuscript (Lines 42-43).
3. The idea of looking at the prevailing climate when seeds were set is an excellent one. Perhaps
some thought needs to be given to whether differences between LoR and HiR seedlings’
responses to drought relate to the mother plant (i.e., differences inherited from the mother, as
the authors seem to claim) or whether they relate only to the seed (i.e., likely epigenetic
determine at this stage whether the differences are heritable.
[Author]: We agree that our study was not designed to predict further capacity of
adaptation, and whether the observed change would be passed to the next generation.
We have changed the title to be more descriptive to reflect that. The title now reads as:
“Phenotypic variation and differentiated gene expression of Australian plants in
response to declining rainfall”.
4. The authors report significant differences between the means as well as significant differences
between the medians of phenotypic traits. In most cases there was no significant differences in
either. In four examples (under drought) there were significant differences in the means and
medians; in three examples there were significant differences in the medians but not the mean
values of HiR vs LoR. While there is likely nothing wrong with this, it suggests that the data are
not particularly strong. In Hakea costata, there were significant differences in LMA between
HiR and LoR in both the droughted and undroughted treatments, but the leaves became
thinner under the drought conditions than under the watered treatments.
[Author]: We agree, and made it clear in the manuscript: “Adaptive phenotypic
responses were not consistent across all traits and species”.
5. In lines 266-269 of the Discussion, the authors claim that their transcriptome analysis showed
that phenotype changes were related to differential expression of genes. I don’t think that the
study demonstrated this relationship at all. There was no cause-effect, no functional analysis.
The study did demonstrate some small differences in a few phenotypic traits and some
differential gene expression between well-watered and droughted plants. Furthermore, in the
same sentence the authors claim that the adaptive mechanism is heritable. As queried above, I
don’t think the authors have demonstrated heritability. Any differences in gene expression
and/or phenotypic traits might have been set up in the embryo while the seed was forming on
the tree, rather than coming from the parental gametes.
[Author]: We agree that our research did not specifically demonstrate heritability of
observed phenotypic variation and differentiated gene expression. However, short-term
drought effects are the only significant differences between the two groups. We could
speculate that the observed phenotypic variation and differentiated gene expression are
in response to changed climate conditions. Given the seeds were from multiple locations,
and the studied species expressed more or less similar trends, it is reasonable to
speculate that those changes are likely coming from the parental gametes.
think they have shown, as they claim, that climate changes drive adaptive morphological
change – there is a weak signal of morphological change in some species, and a weak signal of
physiological adaptation. But, depending on their definition of ‘adaptive’ (i.e., heritable?) a
reader might infer that the changes observed in this study are heritable. This has not been
demonstrated.
[Author]: As we explained above, by adaptation, we mean changes in phenotype and/or
physiological traits by which a species or individual improves its chance of survival in a
changed environment. In terms of “heritable”, as we now explain, our research did not
specifically demonstrate heritability of observed phenotypic variation, while our
experimental design (multiple locations and multiple species, more or less similar
trends) suggests that those changes were likely coming from the parental gametes.
7. The discussion talks about drought as part of a changing climate. There is no mention in the
discussion about the impact of high temperature. This might be worth mentioning briefly, as
often drought and heat occur together and cause rapid death in trees.
[Author]: Indeed, declining rainfall and increasing temperature have both been observed
in the study area. We focused on water availability, rather than temperature, because
water availability is the most limiting environmental factor (apart from fire) in
Australian ecosystems, while temperature is not.
FIGURES
8. There are two ‘Figure 1’, one ‘Figure 3’ and no ‘Figure 2’. I am assuming that ‘Figure 1’ is ‘full
water’ and ‘Figure 2’ is ‘drought’. The caption to Figure 3 needs to be improved to make it
clearer that these are the mortality rates at the conclusion of the experiment, after 3-6 months
of drought. Otherwise it is a bit confusing for the reader to see that the control plants have a
higher mortality than the droughted plants. Figures 3b and 3c do not show any significance
levels or standard error bars. These should be included if you are going to make claims of
significance (e.g., line 218). In Figs 3B-D, it might be better to call them ‘HiR seeds’ or ‘HiR
origin’ etc., rather than ‘HiR sites’ (just a thought). In line 3 of the caption to Figure 3, why are
you saying it is ‘simulated’ drought?
[Author]: The figure labels have been corrected. Removed claims of significance from the
text, as no significance levels or standard error bars can be supplied.
MINOR CORRECTIONS
9. Introduction Line 65: insert comma after ‘years’
10. Lines 78-81: Meaning of sentence unclear – needs rephrasing.
[Author]: The sentence has been rephrased to make the meaning clearer.
11. Line 90: perhaps replace ‘simultaneously’ with ‘en masse’
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
12. Materials and Methods Line 108 – provide the number (or range of numbers) of stands
[Author]: The suggested additions have been made to the methods.
13. Lines 114 & 116: The seed were germinated at 15oC. What temperature(s) were the plants
grown at? Often drought would be accompanied by high temperatures – what was your
‘controlled’ temperature or range of temperatures?
[Author]: The suggested additions have been made to the methods.
14. Line 157: Banksia hookeriana was chosen for expression analysis because of its known
susceptibility to drought. Figure 3 suggests that it is actually less susceptible to drought than
the other species. I am guessing that there were no data available for the other species at the
time that a decision had to be made about which species to do the genomic work on?
[Author]: Banksia hookeriana was chosen for expression analysis because of its greater
susceptibility to drought relative to the other three species used here which are,
characterised by small, sclerophyllous (Hakea costata) or needle (H. polyanthema, B.
leptophylla) leaves. Published evidence on seedling survival for B. leptophylla and needle-
leaved hakea species relative to B. hookeriana in the same field area supports this
assertion (Enright & Lamont 1992, Lamont & Bergl 1991, Lamont et al. 1993).
15. Line 158: change ‘in to’ to ‘into’.
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
16. Results Line 199: The last sentence of this paragraph is repeated from the previous paragraph.
[Author]: This sentence has been made clearer.
17. Lines 201-210: This paragraph draws generalisations from Table 2 that are not very ‘general’.
Really the only ‘generality’ in Table 2 is in relation to water content per unit root length.
Banksia leptophylla barely shows any significant differences. In Banksia hookeriana LMA
this Table is 0.1; only Hakea displays trait differences with significance values below 0.05.
[Author]: We agree that there are considerable inconsistences in response between
species, and between traits – we have now acknowledged these inconsistences at the
start of the paragraph in the manuscript (Lines 214-215). In Table 2, we presented P-
values below 0.1, while significance was taken at below 0.05.
18. Line 208 (and elsewhere in document): the authors frequently use comparative terms such as
‘smaller’ and ‘lower’, but do not make it clear what the comparison is between (ie,
smaller/lower THAN WHAT?).
[Author]: The comparisons have been made clearer.
19. Line 216: Change ‘For the three species …. , seedlings from LoR populations had …’ to ‘At the
end of the experiment (i.e., after eight months), seedlings from LoR populations (Fig. 3C) had …’
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
20. Line 220: I think you mean Fig 3c and 3d, rather than 2c and 2d (since these do not exist). Also
in figure three you use capital letters (e.g., Fig 3A), but in the text you use lowercase letter. I am
sure there is a style (capital or lowercase) that the journal would prefer.
[Author]: Figure numbering in the text has been changed to be consistent with the figure
(changed to capital letters), and references are now made to the correct figures.
21. Line 227: what is‘t’ (e.g., t > 2)?
[Author]:‘t’ refers to natural logarithm transformed fold change. We have amended this
in the manuscript.
22. Line 229: change ‘Onthology’ to ‘Ontology’
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
23. Lines 234 - 237: make sure it is clear that the ‘significant expression change’ in drought
conditions is in comparison to populations grown under control conditions.
[Author]: This sentence has been made clearer.
24. Line 243: change ‘was’ to ‘were’.
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
cell death’?
[Author]: ‘cell death’ should be ‘programmed cell death’. We have amended this in the
manuscript.
26. Lines 277-278: This sentence needs to be clarified, both in expression and in what the authors
are implying. ‘… seedlings of B. leptophylla and H. costata from populations that had been
filtered by drought (i.e., LoR) developed higher LMA than HiR seedlings when growing under
water-deficit conditions but not when growing under control conditions.’
[Author]: This sentence has been made clearer.
27. Paragraph starting line 287: What do the authors mean by ‘cellular pathways of stress
avoidance’ (give example). Perhaps change ‘ensure survival’ to ‘promote survival’ (since
survival is rarely ensured).
[Author]: revised as suggested.
28. Line 294: change ‘were able to activate’ to ‘up-regulated’
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
29. Lines 302-303: what is the effect of the modification of transcriptional regulators etc. … Would
it be fair to say that increased sensitivity to low jasmonic acid would result in the same
response as an increase in jasmonic acid? So even though the plants appear to be using
different hormonal pathways, the end result is the same. Would this be correct? If so, it might
be worth mentioning.
[Author]: As we stated in the manuscript, apart from the antagonistic effects on jasmonic
acid signaling downstream, “salicylic acid is (also) involved in a range of cell activities as
a response to stress, enhancing tolerance to heat, cold, and drought stress, regulating cell
growth, regulating stomatal movement and photosynthetic activity in guard cells of
stomata, and initiating flowering and reproduction under stress conditions and cell
starvation”.
30. Line 309: which two cellular pathways? Degradation and recycling?
[Author]: Yes. This line has been amended to make this clear.
31. Line 309: lower mortality than what?
[Author]: This sentence has been made clearer.
32. Line 312: I think we need an understanding of what ‘adaptation’ is – does it include
acclimation/changes in expression? Has ‘adaptation’ occurred from standing variation or are
we observing temporary (or permanent) epigenetic changes?
[Author]: As explained above, we have now defined “adaptation” - by adaptation, we
mean that we have observed phenotypic/physiological change, and differentiated genetic
expression that could promote survival of a species in a changed environment.
33. Lines 316-318: Do you have any direct evidence that drought selects for homozygosity of
salicylic acid biosynthesis? You may have to tone this statement down a bit.
[Author]: We agree that there is no “direct evidence that drought selects for
homozygosity of salicylic acid biosynthesis”. We have amended our statement.
34. Line 319: change ‘homozygotous’ to ‘homozygous’.
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
35. Lines 324 – 328: This sentence should perhaps be rephrased. (E.G., The temporal and spatial
heterogeneity of selection, suggested by this study, together with high gene flow (41, 19), might
lead to...). It is still unclear whether we are looking at rapid ‘adaptation’ or acclimation
(change in gene expression).
[Author]: The sentence has been rephrased.
36. Line 333: Have you really demonstrated adaptive evolution through natural selection? Need to
design an experiment to demonstrate transgenerational inheritance.
[Author]: The sentence was amended for improved accuracy.
37. Line 341: change ‘for’ to ‘that allows a physiologically beneficial’.
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
38. Lines 341-342: ‘adaptive genetic variation to rainfall’ is poor English. Rephrase.
[Author]: This sentence has been rephrased.
39. Lines 348-349: change ‘a lower population genetic variation in LoR populations’ to ‘lower
genetic variation within LoR populations’
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
requires a balance of growth and survival’.
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
41. Line 358: place comma after ‘selection’; change ‘unstressed’ to ‘favourable’
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
42. Line 360: think about whether it is ‘adaptation’ or ‘acclimation’ (?) Table 1 caption: Be more
descriptive in what you mean by ‘overall difference’. What does this ‘difference’ encapsulate?
[Author]: we have added details on the “overall differences”.
43. Table 3: In the caption to table 3, clarify the basis on which you claim the differences are
‘significant’ (P level or equivalent) and what level of change in expression was observed (e.g.,
two-fold upregulation, 100-fold down regulation etc.). Also, what constitutes ‘starvation’ in a
plant (upregulated during drought in seedlings of LoR origin)? Nutrient deficiency? Sunlight
deficiency? Were all of the GO terms used in the GO analysis relevant to plants?
[Author]: as suggested, more detail on significance of difference has been provided in the
table caption, including the statement that GO terms used in the GO analysis are only
relevant to plants.
SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS
44. Supplementary Material: Table S3 – explain what the water percentages mean.
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
45. L108: delete comma.
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
46. Line 122: Change first four words to ‘Differential gene expression’; change ‘on’ to ‘using’.
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
47. Line 131: define DEPC water.
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
48. Line 139: lower case for ‘total’.
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
50. Line 171: change ‘are’ to ‘were’ (in both instances).
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
51. Line 173: change ‘is’ to ‘of’.
[Author]: The suggested change has been made.
52. Line 182: There are hundreds of GO terms. Did you select particular classes of GO terms? If so,
how did you select them? How did you make the assessment that the GO terms were ‘enriched’?
What was your set of reference sequences – the entire KEGG databases?
[Author]: We did not select any particular groups of GO terms. It was determined
that the GO terms were ‘enriched’ if the adjusted p-value < 0.05. We set KEGG
databases as reference sequence.
53. Line 185: At what level was ‘statistical significance’ inferred?
[Author]: We explained at what level ‘statistical significance’ was inferred in the
last sentence: “A list of differentially expressed genes clusters was reported after
correcting for multiple comparisons (adjusted p-value < 0.05).”
Society Open
