1
Multitasking during social interactions in adolescence and early
adulthood
Kathryn L. Mills, Iroise Dumontheil, Maarten Speekenbrink and Sarah-Jayne Blakemore
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150117.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150117
Review timeline
Original submission: 12 March 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as submitted
Revised submission: 23 July 2015 by the referee. The review history appears in
Final acceptance: 27 October 2015 chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150117.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Mills, Dumontheil, Speekenbrink, & Blakemore present an interesting and important study examining how the
ability to multitask social cognitive and non-social cognitive information may vary between adolescents and adults.
They find that both adolescents and adults 1) have a harder time following instructions when they do not have a
social cue acknowledging a shared perspective (i.e., when a director is absent and has the same perspective as
them), 2) are more accurate multitaskers if they have a combination of high trait working memory capacity and trait
perspective-taking, and 3) are less quick to interpret someone’s perspective that is unique from one’s own when
under cognitive load. In terms of developmental differences, they also find that adolescents are less accurate than
adults at following instructions (when a director is or is not present) when they are under high cognitive load.
Overall these are interesting results that complement and extent the existing literature. I do however have some
questions and concerns about the results.
1. Based on the presented results, I’m not sure they authors can make the (consistently made) claim that their
findings are about multitasking during social interactions. But, if I’m not mistaken, wasn’t the age effect on
accuracy for both the director present and director absent trials? Are the director absent trials really social
interaction trials? (I thought this was the ‘non-social control condition’). And if not, then are your age results about
differences in multitasking more generally, rather than multitasking during social interactions? I think you at least
need to show that these results aren’t entirely driven by the DA condition to make your claims. E.g., when you only
look at DP trials, and ignore DA trials, do you still see the effect of adolescents performing worse than adults while
under cognitive load and just also see this when you only look at DA trials? Or, is the result with DP and DA trials
collapsed entirely driven by performance differences across the groups on the DA trials? If the effect is driven by
DA trial performance only, the authors should temper their claims that their age effects reflect multitasking during
social interactions, as it would suggest instead that what adolescents are bad at is multitasking multiple pieces of
(non-social) cognitive information.
2. Why did the authors only use the combined trait scores as an individual difference measure? It seems like in
order to show that it is the combination of wm capacity and pt specifically that helps with multi-tasking you’d want
to be able to show either that a) you don’t see a significant relationship between either traits individually with
multi-tasking performance or b) that while you do see relationships with the individual measures, there is still
unique variance explained specifically by their combination.
3. Why were the participants only female? Was this data collected for a different study that specifically needed
females? (I’m assuming so bc otherwise why would you only recruit females for this behavioral study that
presumably males can also do?). If this is data from another study, that’s fine, but please acknowledge that (and it
would help to mention anyhow since I doubt there is a strong rationale for choosing only females to test this
hypothesis). Relatedly, it would be prudent to acknowledge this as a limitation. Also, (and this point would actually
be promising for the pattern of results you find here) I wonder if female adolescents are better at social cognition
than their adolescent male counterparts, which suggests you may see even larger age-related differences if you also
had males in this study.
4. I think it would be very helpful for the reader if the explanations of the variables used on p. 12 also appeared next
to the variable names in Table 3. For example, next to the word ‘Group’ in Table 3, you could put in parantheses
(adolescents vs. adults) and next to condition put (DA vs. DP), etc etc.
5. I was confused by the presentation of the interaction in Figure 3b. Why is they y-axis the difference score between
different – same perspective? I understand this allows you to capture the 3-way interaction in one graph, but it may
all be easier to follow if you break this graph into two graphs, with one having the y-axis of different perspective
and the other graph having the y-axis of same perspective.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
3
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The goal of this study was to examine the effects of cognitive load on social tasks, such as perspective taking and
attention to social cues, in a group of adolescents and young adults from a multitasking framework. The approach,
to require participants to carry out two tasks (Director Task and WM task) simultaneously is clever. the finding that
participants are faster and more accurate to respond when using social cues is interesting, as is the finding that
participants in both age groups were slower at taking another's perspective when under high cognitive load. The
methods are sound, findings are interesting and the paper is well-written. However, I have a few clarifying points
below:
1) Why were the WM trials two-digit, as opposed to one-digit, numbers?
2) I would ask the same question if only males were studied: Why only females? and how do the authors speculate
these findings would differ in male participants?
3) Please provide an example of items on the Perspective Taking subscale
4) Did the number of excluded trials (as based on response time) differ between age groups?
5) Did the results in Figure 2c differ by age group?
6) Did the results in Figure 3 differ by age group?
7) The authors conclude that the adolescent group were more impaired on the social task under high cognitive load
than adults. Presuming that some more impaired in response to cognitive load than others (regardless of the social
task), it would be interesting to know if those adolescents who performed as well as adults on the cognitive load
component also showed less impairment on the social task. In other words, is this a developmental effect or more
about poorer cognitive resources in adolescents?
8) Although I appreciate the importance of including a "non-social" control condition, I question whether the
director absent condition fulfills this goal. Since participants knew that the "M' and "F" letters on the screen were
proxies for the directors, would they then not treat those letters as "social"?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150117)
24-Jun-2015
Dear Ms Mills,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Multitasking during social interactions in adolescence and early
adulthood") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance
with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the
Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 17-Jul-2015). If we do not hear from you
within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional circumstances,
extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of
revision so we urge you to make every effort to fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary
by the Editors, your manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your Author Centre, where
you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a
Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a
new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the referees and upload a
file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to document how you have responded to the
comments, and the adjustments you have made. In order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript,
please be as specific as possible in your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your revised
manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received, including the name of
the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail whether informed consent was obtained.
For field studies on animals please include details of all permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out
the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as supplementary information or
preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data accessibility section should state where the article's
supporting data can be accessed. This section should also include details, where possible of where to access other
relevant research materials such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been
deposited in an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI for
all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been deposited in an external
repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions section which
individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors should meet all of the following
criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation
of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence alignments, participated
in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out the statistical analyses; EF collected field data;
GH conceived of the study, designed the study, coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors
gave final approval for publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look forward to
receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150117)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150117.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have addressed all of my comments.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
6
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Authors have adequately addressed concerns
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150117.R1)
26th October 2015
Dear Ms Mills,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Multitasking during social interactions in adolescence
and early adulthood" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please contact the
production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are likely to be away from e-mail
contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received,
your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model (http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will
be published straight into the next open issue and this will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited
immediately by other researchers. As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I
would advise you to check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your paper to selected
colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with the name and email addresses of up
to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued contributions to the
Journal.
Best wishes,
Ms Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Appendix A
Dr Kathryn Mills
UCL Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience
17 Queen Square
London WC1N 3AR
Email: kathryn.l.mills@gmail.com
23rd July 2015
Dear Editor & Reviewers,
Please find enclosed our revised manuscript “Multitasking during social interactions in adolescence and early
adulthood” for consideration as a Research Article in Royal Society Open Science. We have addressed the
reviewers' concerns and feel that the manuscript has been substantially improved after incorporating their
comments. We have detailed our response (in blue) to each comment on the following page and have
highlighted all changes in the manuscript in blue.
Thank you again for your consideration.
Yours sincerely,
Dr. Kathryn L Mills Dr. Iroise Dumontheil
Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience Department of Psychological Sciences
University College London, London, UK Birkbeck College, University of London, London, UK
Dr. Maarten Speekenbrink Prof. Sarah-Jayne Blakemore
Experimental Psychology Royal Society University Research Fellow
University College London, London, UK Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience
University College London, London, UK
Response to Reviewers' Comments
Reviewer: 1
Mills, Dumontheil, Speekenbrink, & Blakemore present an interesting and important study examining how
the ability to multitask social cognitive and non-social cognitive information may vary between adolescents
and adults. They find that both adolescents and adults 1) have a harder time following instructions when
they do not have a social cue acknowledging a shared perspective (i.e., when a director is absent and has the
same perspective as them), 2) are more accurate multitaskers if they have a combination of high trait
working memory capacity and trait perspective-taking, and 3) are less quick to interpret someone’s
perspective that is unique from one’s own when under cognitive load. In terms of developmental
differences, they also find that adolescents are less accurate than adults at following instructions (when a
director is or is not present) when they are under high cognitive load. Overall these are interesting results
that complement and extent the existing literature. I do however have some questions and concerns about
the results.
1. Based on the presented results, I’m not sure they authors can make the (consistently made) claim that
their findings are about multitasking during social interactions. But, if I’m not mistaken, wasn’t the age effect
on accuracy for both the director present and director absent trials? Are the director absent trials really
social interaction trials? (I thought this was the ‘non-social control condition’). And if not, then are your age
results about differences in multitasking more generally, rather than multitasking during social interactions?
I think you at least need to show that these results aren’t entirely driven by the DA condition to make your
claims. E.g., when you only look at DP trials, and ignore DA trials, do you still see the effect of adolescents
performing worse than adults while under cognitive load and just also see this when you only look at DA
trials? Or, is the result with DP and DA trials collapsed entirely driven by performance differences across the
groups on the DA trials? If the effect is driven by DA trial performance only, the authors should temper their
claims that their age effects reflect multitasking during social interactions, as it would suggest instead that
what adolescents are bad at is multitasking multiple pieces of (non-social) cognitive information.
We thank the reviewer for pointing out this important distinction. We apologise for the confusion, as some
of our results did distinguish between the social (Director Present) and non-social (Director Absent)
conditions, while some of our results did not. The reviewer accurately points out that the age group x
cognitive load interaction was also present in the non-social condition, and therefore we cannot make the
claim that this result is explicitly social. The results were not driven by the DA trial performance, as
adolescents perform worse on both DP and DA trials when under high cognitive load. We have updated our
language in the manuscript accordingly (see examples below).
1) On p.14 we changed the sentence: "Compared with adults, the adolescent group showed a greater
decrement in performance when having to keep track of several pieces of non-social information whilst
performing a social interaction task." to: "Compared with adults, the adolescent group showed a greater
decrement in performance when having to keep track of several pieces of information whilst multitasking."
2) On p.16 we added the caveat: "However, it is important to note that this interaction was specific to
reaction time, as the effect of cognitive load on accuracy in selecting the correct object was similar in both
the Director Present and Director Absent conditions."
3) On p.16 we removed the word "specifically" (see crossed out text).
4) On p.17 we have added the underlined text: "The results of the present study support the idea that
adolescents are more sensitive to additional cognitive load requirements than are adults in both social and
non-social multitasking situations."
5) On p.18-19 we have updated this statement with the underlined text: "Our results show a significant
decrease in accuracy in both social and non-social multitasking situations"
2. Why did the authors only use the combined trait scores as an individual difference measure? It seems like
in order to show that it is the combination of wm capacity and pt specifically that helps with multi-tasking
you’d want to be able to show either that a) you don’t see a significant relationship between either traits
individually with multi-tasking performance or b) that while you do see relationships with the individual
measures, there is still unique variance explained specifically by their combination.
2
Again, we apologise for the confusion, as we did examine the individual influence of each trait in our
analysis, but the combined trait measure was better than either of the individual traits in explaining
individual variability in task performance. Our model selection procedure would fit with the reviewer's
second criterion, as it confirms that unique variance is explained specifically by their combination.
3. Why were the participants only female? Was this data collected for a different study that specifically
needed females? (I’m assuming so bc otherwise why would you only recruit females for this behavioral study
that presumably males can also do?). If this is data from another study, that’s fine, but please acknowledge
that (and it would help to mention anyhow since I doubt there is a strong rationale for choosing only females
to test this hypothesis). Relatedly, it would be prudent to acknowledge this as a limitation. Also, (and this
point would actually be promising for the pattern of results you find here) I wonder if female adolescents are
better at social cognition than their adolescent male counterparts, which suggests you may see even larger
age-related differences if you also had males in this study.
We agree with the reviewer that our testing of just one gender is a limitation and have now addressed this in
the manuscript. In our lab, we typically test one gender (either females or males) in order to minimise the
confounding effects of gender on developmental differences, as there are pronounced differences in
physical development (Bordini and Rosenfield, 2011; Sun et al., 2002), brain development (e.g., Herting et
al., 2012; Giedd et al., 2012) and cognitive development (e.g., Boelema et al., 2014; Bosco et al., 2014)
between females and males in adolescence. In order to investigate the presence gender differences
statistically, we would need to at least double our sample size. However, as this is the first study on the
development of multitasking ability using our paradigm, we prioritized the homogeneity of the sample over
the ability to investigate performance in both genders. Additionally, including both genders would have
complicated our already complex study design, as we would have had to take into consideration the
additional factor of gender.
We have added the following:
p.18: "Our sample only included female participants in order to reduce the number of factors examined in
this novel investigation. Future developmental studies investigating the effects of multitasking on
performance should include both female and male participants in order to examine any potential sex
differences.
4. I think it would be very helpful for the reader if the explanations of the variables used on p. 12 also
appeared next to the variable names in Table 3. For example, next to the word ‘Group’ in Table 3, you could
put in parantheses (adolescents vs. adults) and next to condition put (DA vs. DP), etc etc.
This is an excellent suggestion and we have updated Table 3 accordingly.
5. I was confused by the presentation of the interaction in Figure 3b. Why is they y-axis the difference score
between different – same perspective? I understand this allows you to capture the 3-way interaction in one
graph, but it may all be easier to follow if you break this graph into two graphs, with one having the y-axis of
different perspective and the other graph having the y-axis of same perspective.
The reviewer is correct in that we originally presented the interaction this way in order to illustrate the 3-
way interaction in one graph. We feel that this graph is better able to illustrate the effect of inhibiting an
egocentric perspective than if we were to divide this result into two separate graphs. However, the code
used to generate all of our graphs was included in our freely available and downloadable dataset + analysis
script (link included in the manuscript) for anyone to use in case they want to visualise the results in another
fashion.
Reviewer: 2
The goal of this study was to examine the effects of cognitive load on social tasks, such as perspective taking
and attention to social cues, in a group of adolescents and young adults from a multitasking framework. The
approach, to require participants to carry out two tasks (Director Task and WM task) simultaneously is
clever. the finding that participants are faster and more accurate to respond when using social cues is
interesting, as is the finding that participants in both age groups were slower at taking another's perspective
3
when under high cognitive load. The methods are sound, findings are interesting and the paper is well-
written. However, I have a few clarifying points below:
1) Why were the WM trials two-digit, as opposed to one-digit, numbers?
We used two-digit numbers for additional complexity/load. Furthermore, this allowed for more variability in
number presentations for our participants.
2) I would ask the same question if only males were studied: Why only females? and how do the authors
speculate these findings would differ in male participants?
We have also addressed this concern in our response to Reviewer 1's third comment. We would speculate
that the findings would differ in males in that the developmental difference would be slightly delayed, given
the slightly later development of males compared to females in early adolescence (Bordini and Rosenfield,
2011; Sun et al., 2002). However, we would not expect the overall performance to be fundamentally
different.
3) Please provide an example of items on the Perspective Taking subscale
We have now included two example items from the Perspective Taking subscale in our methods.
We added to p.10: This subscale included questions such as: "I sometimes try to understand my friends
better by imagining how things look from their perspective" or "I sometimes find it difficult to see things
from the 'other guy's' point of view."
4) Did the number of excluded trials (as based on response time) differ between age groups?
No: two adults and one adolescent each had one trial (out of 192) removed for having excessively slow RT,
and two adolescents and one adult each had one trial (out of 192) removed for excessively fast RT.
5) Did the results in Figure 2c differ by age group?
No. The best fitting model for multitasking accuracy did not include an interaction between Combined Traits
and Age Group (see Table 3).
6) Did the results in Figure 3 differ by age group?
No. Neither age group as a main effect nor within interactions contributed to the best fitting model for
multitasking (Table 3).
7) The authors conclude that the adolescent group were more impaired on the social task under high
cognitive load than adults. Presuming that some more impaired in response to cognitive load than others
(regardless of the social task), it would be interesting to know if those adolescents who performed as well as
adults on the cognitive load component also showed less impairment on the social task. In other words, is
this a developmental effect or more about poorer cognitive resources in adolescents?
As we clarified in our response to the first reviewer's first comment, adolescents were not more impaired on
the social task specifically under high cognitive load compared to adults--the age effect was the same for the
social and non-social condition. However, we agree with the reviewer that it is necessary to understand if
our effects were related to development or more about poorer cognitive resources in adolescents. We
included a measure of trait cognitive resource capacity in our models (WM Score) in order to examine the
relative contributions of development (age group) and individual differences in cognitive resources (WM
Score) on performance. The best fitting model for multi-tasking accuracy included both age group and an
interaction between WM Score and perspective taking, which suggests that the developmental effect
explains unique variance not captured by individual differences in cognitive resources.
8) Although I appreciate the importance of including a "non-social" control condition, I question whether the
director absent condition fulfills this goal. Since participants knew that the "M' and "F" letters on the screen
were proxies for the directors, would they then not treat those letters as "social"?
The reviewer brings up an important consideration. It is possible that the participants did interpret the
letters as social cues, but it is unlikely that the participants adopted the same strategies to take the
4
perspective of the directors as they would during the Director Present condition. Further, this version of the
Director Task was used in a recent fMRI study (Dumontheil et al., 2012), in which the Director Present
condition elicited greater activity in regions of the brain known to be involved in social cognitive processing
than in the Director Absent condition.
5
Society Open
