Development of an intravascular ultrasound elastography
based on a dual-element transducer
Cho-Chiang Shih, Pei-Yu Chen, Teng Ma, Qifa Zhou, K. Kirk Shung and Chih-Chung
Huang
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180138.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180138
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 February 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 10 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 12 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180138.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Emma Harris)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors present a well-written manuscript, which describes the use of a novel intravascular
dual-frequency ultrasound transducer for the measurement of shear modulus in vitro and ex
vivo.
I have only a few very minor comments:
P2 L14-15: Please state the average and the standard deviation of the measured values of peak
displacement and velocity in the abstract.
P3 L15: This sentence is structured incorrectly and you are using the word predication, I think
you may mean prediction.
P4 L3: Why is spectroscopy at the end of the sentence? Remove this.
P4 L4: Remove full stop after plaque, replace with a comma.
P4 L8: I would say elastography is an imaging technique rather than an imaging technology.
P5 L1: Aren’t you just measuring the average displacement within the ROE with ARFI – ARFI
does not allow you to differentiation motions of different pats of the ROE and therefore cannot
measure deformation of the ROE.
P8 L8-9: This sentence is incorrect. More explanation is needed here. How did you ensure there
was no ringing after the bust – did you measure the pressure wave a hydrophone?
P10 L4: The aorta was cut to a length of 8mm, which included the atherosclerotic portion.
P10 L8: There is a symbol error. Also, the sentence is incorrect you should use the past tense
throughout.
P11 L21: Should be larger not lager.
P12 L9: Should be regions plural.
P15 L23: Engendered is a strange word to use, ..gave rise to…, would be better.
P16 L24-25: Can the authors add some discussion about the relevance of the phantom in terms of
mimicking dispersion due to viscosity, in the two types of plaque considered. Although,
commonly used, it is a limitation of using such a phantom I believe.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Xiaoning Jiang)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
3
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This work is significant and this manuscript is well written. Only minor revisions are needed as
the comments in the following.
1. Page 4, line 3-5:
The sequence of sentences needs to be checked, having editing error.
2. Page 7, line 3:
PbTiO3 (PMN-PT) is wrong.
3. Page 7, line 6:
a=> delete.
4. Page 10, line 8:
5°C shows wrong character.
5. Page 11, line 15:
mean ± standard values=> mean ± standard deviation.
6. Page 24, line 24:
Year=> 2014.
7. Page 29, line 21-22:
(c)=> (d); (d)=> (e); (e)=> (f).
8. Page 37, line 28-29:
(c)=> (d); (d)=> (e); (e)=> (f).
9. references: format of references not consistent. e.g. ref. 36
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180138)
02-Mar-2018
Dear Professor Huang
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180138 entitled
"Development of an intravascular ultrasound elastography based on a dual-element transducer"
has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
4
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180138
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
5
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 11-Mar-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
6
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Peter Munro (Associate Editor) and R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors present a well-written manuscript, which describes the use of a novel intravascular
dual-frequency ultrasound transducer for the measurement of shear modulus in vitro and ex
vivo.
I have only a few very minor comments:
P2 L14-15: Please state the average and the standard deviation of the measured values of peak
displacement and velocity in the abstract.
P3 L15: This sentence is structured incorrectly and you are using the word predication, I think
you may mean prediction.
P4 L3: Why is spectroscopy at the end of the sentence? Remove this.
P4 L4: Remove full stop after plaque, replace with a comma.
P4 L8: I would say elastography is an imaging technique rather than an imaging technology.
P5 L1: Aren’t you just measuring the average displacement within the ROE with ARFI – ARFI
does not allow you to differentiation motions of different pats of the ROE and therefore cannot
measure deformation of the ROE.
P8 L8-9: This sentence is incorrect. More explanation is needed here. How did you ensure there
was no ringing after the bust – did you measure the pressure wave a hydrophone?
P10 L4: The aorta was cut to a length of 8mm, which included the atherosclerotic portion.
P10 L8: There is a symbol error. Also, the sentence is incorrect you should use the past tense
throughout.
P11 L21: Should be larger not lager.
P12 L9: Should be regions plural.
P15 L23: Engendered is a strange word to use, ..gave rise to…, would be better.
P16 L24-25: Can the authors add some discussion about the relevance of the phantom in terms of
mimicking dispersion due to viscosity, in the two types of plaque considered. Although,
commonly used, it is a limitation of using such a phantom I believe.
7
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This work is significant and this manuscript is well written. Only minor revisions are needed as
the comments in the following.
1. Page 4, line 3-5:
The sequence of sentences needs to be checked, having editing error.
2. Page 7, line 3:
PbTiO3 (PMN-PT) is wrong.
3. Page 7, line 6:
a=> delete.
4. Page 10, line 8:
5°C shows wrong character.
5. Page 11, line 15:
mean ± standard values=> mean ± standard deviation.
6. Page 24, line 24:
Year=> 2014.
7. Page 29, line 21-22:
(c)=> (d); (d)=> (e); (e)=> (f).
8. Page 37, line 28-29:
(c)=> (d); (d)=> (e); (e)=> (f).
9. references: format of references not consistent. e.g. ref.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180138)
See Appendices A & B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180138.R1)
12-Mar-2018
Dear Professor Huang,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Development of an intravascular
ultrasound elastography based on a dual-element transducer" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
8
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Development of an intravascular ultrasound elastography based on a dual-element transducer
Cho-Chiang Shih1, Pei-Yu Chen1, Teng Ma2, Qifa Zhou2, K. Kirk Shung2, and Chih-Chung
Huang1
1
Department of Biomedical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan
2
Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
CA, USA.
Address correspondence to
Chih-Chung Huang Ph.D
Department of Biomedical Engineering,
National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan
No 1, University Road, Tainan City 701, Taiwan
Email: cchuang@mail.ncku.edu.tw
Phone : +886936195798
1
Abstract
The ability to measure the elastic properties of plaques and vessels would be useful in
clinical diagnoses, particularly for detecting a vulnerable plaque. This study demonstrates the
feasibility of the combination of intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) and acoustic radiation force
(ARF) elasticity imaging for detecting the distribution of stiffness within atherosclerotic
arteries ex vivo. A dual-frequency IVUS transducer with two elements was used to induce the
propagation of shear wave (by the 8.5-MHz pushing element) which could be simultaneously
monitored by the 31-MHz imaging element. The wave-amplitude image and the wave-velocity
image was reconstructed by measuring the peak displacement and wave velocity of shear wave
propagation, respectively. System performance was verified using gelatin phantoms. The
phantom results demonstrate that the stiffness differences of shear modulus of 1.6 kPa can be
distinguished through the wave-amplitude and wave-velocity images. The stiffness
distributions of the atherosclerotic aorta from a rabbit were obtained, which the values of peak
displacement and the shear-wave velocity were 3.7±1.2 µm and 0.38±0.19 m/s for the lipid-
rich plaques, respectively, and 1.0±0.2 µm and 3.45±0.45 m/s for the arterial walls. These
results indicate that IVUS elasticity imaging can be used to distinguish the elastic properties of
plaques and vessels.
Key words: intravascular ultrasound, acoustic radiation force, shear wave elasticity imaging,
plaque, and atherosclerosis.
2
Introduction
Atherosclerosis is a slowly progressive and systemic disease characterized by the
accumulation of plaque through the deposition of calcium, fibrin, cholesterol, fat, and other
substances in the intima of large and medium-sized arteries, including the aorta, coronary
artery, and peripheral arteries [1-3]. The specific disease that involves atherosclerotic plaques
building up on the walls of the coronary artery is coronary artery disease (CAD), which is the
most common type of cardiovascular disease that is the leading cause of death globally [4].
The rupture of a vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque, which is composed of a thin fibrous cap and
underlying necrotic lipid core, is a major contributor to acute cardiovascular events [3, 5].
Several studies have revealed such a lipid-rich plaque may rupture and break away from the
vessel wall when it cannot withstand the stress imposed by the pulsatile pressure of the blood
[6]. Plaque vulnerability is a complex and multi-factorial process that relates to both
morphological and mechanical characteristics [7]. The accurate geometric features of plaque
and surrounding vessel wall have been well presented by current imaging modalities.
Therefore, the challenge to predict the plaque ruptures would depend on the precise knowledge
of the mechanical properties of the arterial wall and plaque [8]. The ability to quantitatively
estimate the geometrical and mechanical properties of the plaque and arterial vessel wall would
be useful in clinical diagnoses since it would allow the physician to determine the degree of
arteriosclerosis and estimate the risk of plaque rupture [9, 10].
IVUS is a commonly used standard modality for the intravascular assessment of coronary
atherosclerotic disease and for guiding interventional therapies such as stent implantation.
Based on the echogenicity of acoustic waves, IVUS can allow cross-sectional visualization of
the coronary artery wall and provide the quantitative lumen dimensions and plaque area.
However, the sensitivity and specificity of IVUS for detecting the composition of a plaque are
poor due to the minimal contrast between different types of soft tissue [11]. With the aim of
3
solving this problem, several investigators have reported different multimodality imaging
techniques that combine different optical methods for plaque characterization. However, none
of these methods provides information about the mechanical properties of a plaque, such as
IVUS with photoacoustic imaging [12], IVUS with optical coherence tomography [13], and
IVUS with near-infrared [14].
Over the past two decades, various ultrasound techniques have been proposed for
assessing the mechanical properties of soft tissues. In 1991, Ophir et al. developed an imaging
technique called elastography to measure the elastic properties of soft tissue based on applying
an external force to the tissue and measuring its deformation at different depths. This method
can be used to reconstruct the stiffness distributions within the tissue according to its internal
strain profile along the transducer axis [15]. Several groups have applied this approach for
IVUS purposes in so-called IVUS elastography. This technique involves inducing different
strains in the plaque and epicardial vessel by the application of intraluminal pressures [16]–
[18]. However, in order to avoid the detection of different tissues, the imaging frames in
intravascular elastography can only be acquired near end-diastole, which involves a pressure
difference of 4–5 mmHg as determined using elastograms. This produces slight errors in the
pressure measurements that would cause considerable errors in estimations of elastic properties
[19].
In addition to the elastography methods involving the application of direct forces, acoustic
radiation force (ARF) elasticity imaging—which involves applying an ARF in order to
remotely palpate tissue—has been developed by researchers as an alternative to conventional
ultrasound elastography [20]. ARF elasticity imaging involves applying a short-duration (<1
ms) impulsive ARF to the tissue, whose mechanical properties can then be determined directly
from the induced dynamic motions of the tissue. ARF elasticity imaging techniques fall into
two general categories: (1) acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) imaging, which is used to
4
measure the localized displacement within the region of excitation (ROE) caused by the
transfer of momentum from the longitudinal wave [21], and (2) shear-wave elasticity imaging
(SWEI), which is used to measure the deformation from the shear wave that propagates
transversely from the ROE [22]. Preliminary studies have demonstrated the feasibility of using
ARFI imaging for atherosclerosis and plaque characterization [21, 23-26]. ARFI imaging can
be used to distinguish various components of plaques, such as calcium, collagen deposits, lipid
pools, and fibrous caps [27, 28]. In addition, SWEI techniques have been used for assessing
the mechanical properties of arterial walls, especially in the carotid artery [29, 30] and aorta
[31], but only a few studies have used it for detecting atherosclerosis [32]. Most of the above-
mentioned studies involving ARFI and SWEI have investigated the carotid and popliteal
arteries. The low resolutions of these imaging systems due to the relatively low ultrasound
frequency employed (typically 3–7 MHz) makes it difficult to use noninvasive elastography to
estimate the mechanical properties of plaques in smaller arteries, such as the coronary artery,
which is particularly important for CAD.
High-frequency ultrasound (generally 30~50 MHz for the coronary artery) provides a
better spatial resolution, but the associated higher acoustic attenuation reduces the penetration
of the radiation force into the tissues. Meanwhile, using lower frequency ultrasound (generally
below 10 MHz) for generating the ARF cannot provide sufficient resolution for imaging the
coronary arteries. This has led to proposals to use a dual-frequency transducer in high-
resolution ARFI imaging for assessing the elastic properties of tissues [33, 34]. Those studies
used lower frequency ultrasound to induce the tissue displacement and then higher frequency
ultrasound to track the tissue deformation in ARFI imaging. Even though the dual-frequency
transducer used was too large for IVUS imaging, the intensities of ARF needed to induce
sufficient displacements in several arteries of pigs and artificial lipid-rich plaques have been
reported [34]. On the other hands, this concept of ARFI-IVUS imaging is now feasible for
5
CAD diagnosis due to the ability to fabricate miniaturized transducers that can be inserted into
the artery [35, 36]. Dual-frequency IVUS transducers were fabricated with two co-aligned
beams. Although those studies did not yield any biological data, the experimental results did
demonstrate the feasibility of ARFI-IVUS imaging using a miniaturized dual-frequency
transducer. The ARFI-IVUS technique has gradually been developed for the purpose of
detecting atherosclerosis and seems useful in providing the relative elastogram for visualizing
the location of plaques and thereby aid clinical diagnoses. However, the ability to quantify the
mechanical properties of the plaque and arterial vessel wall is still important for the clinician
to evaluate the risk of rupture of a vulnerable plaque. ARFI technique can only provide the
relative stiffness because of the unknown force. To our knowledge, the SWEI method, which
is one of the useful techniques for quantifying the elastic properties of soft tissue, has not been
applied to IVUS imaging.
The aim of this study was to combine ARF elasticity imaging and the IVUS technique for
assessing the mechanical properties in atherosclerosis. In this study, a dual-frequency IVUS
transducer with 8.5- and 31-MHz elements was fabricated: the 8.5-MHz element was used to
generate the ARF that induces the propagation of shear wave, while the 31-MHz element was
used to detect the induced dynamic displacements of the tissues. The system performance was
verified in tissue-mimicking gelatin-based phantoms. Ex vivo experiments were carried out
using a rabbit abdomen aorta containing lipid-diet-induced plaques. The obtained experimental
results show the feasibility of using ARF-IVUS elasticity imaging for distinguishing
atherosclerosis in a clinical diagnosis.
Materials and Methods
A. Dual-frequency IVUS transducer
Figure 1(a) shows the dual-frequency transducer with two unfocused elements which was
fabricated in this study (NIH Ultrasonic Transducer Resource Center, University of Southern
6
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA). The outer diameter of the transducer is 2.5 mm, and the
active areas of the pushing and imaging elements are 2 <U+F0B4> 3 mm2 and 1 <U+F0B4> 1 mm2, respectively.
Pb(Mg1/3Nb2/3)O3-PbTiO3 (PMN-PT) and Pb(Zr,Ti)O3 (PZT) was used in this study to
fabricate the 31-MHz element and 8.5-MHz element, respectively. The pitch width between
the pushing and imaging elements is 0.5 mm. The 8.5-MHz pushing element was used to
generate the ARF that stimulated the propagation of shear wave, and the induced dynamic
tissue displacement was detected by the 31-MHz imaging element for reconstructing the image,
as shown in Fig. 1(b).
B. Experimental setup
The experimental system is illustrated in Fig. 2. The pushing element was excited by a
function generator (AFG3252, Tektronix, Beaverton, OR, USA) connected to an RF power
amplifier (25A250, Amplifier Research, Souderton, PA, USA). Sinusoidal 8.5-MHz tone bursts
with durations from 0.2 to 1 ms were provided by the function generator (corresponding to
1,700 to 8,500 sinusoidal cycles). The peak-to-peak amplitude of the output tone burst from
the power amplifier ranged from 85 to 170 V. The 31-MHz element of the dual-frequency
transducer was used in imaging to detect the localized displacement of the tissue. A pulser-
receiver (5900PR, Panametrics, Waltham, MA, USA) with a bandwidth of 200 MHz was used
to drive the imaging element of the transducer for transmitting and receiving ultrasound signals
with a pulse repetition frequency (PRF) of 20 kHz. The received ultrasound signals that had
been backscattered from the tissue were amplified and filtered using a built-in variable-gain
amplifier and a 30-MHz bandpass filter (BBP-30+, Mini-Circuits, Brooklyn, NY, USA.). The
pulser-receiver was triggered by the function generator. The PRF trigger of the function
generator was also used to synchronize the acquisition of the backscattered signals at a
maximum sampling frequency of 2 GHz by an 8-bit analog-to-digital converter (ADC) (PXI-
5152, National Instruments, Austin, TX, USA). The pulser-receiver, function generator, and
7
ADC were synchronized using a trigger from the function generator while the imaging and
pushing elements were operating continuously.
The dual-frequency transducer was fixed on the stage and the sample was placed at the
center of the rotating motor platform to allow scanning at different angles. A two-dimensional
(2D) IVUS image was obtained by moving the platform through 250 steps per revolution, with
460 A-lines being acquired at each angle. A representative timing diagram for the two elements
is shown in Fig. 3. The ARF was applied by the pushing element at 2 ms after the imaging
element started to receive the signals backscattered from the tissue. However, the imaging
element was affected largely by the pushing element as two elements were activated
simultaneously (the received echo signal was coupled by the pushing burst). In order to avoid
the interferences, the displacement estimations were performed on the echo signals after the
excitation period of ARF in each representative timing step. The signals before the excitation
period of ARF were used as the references for determining the initial position of the tissue. The
tissue displacement at each detectable position was measured as a function of time using a
cross-correlation tracking algorithm under a sliding window of 77 µm with 50% overlap [37].
The tissue displacements induced by shear-wave propagation along the axial direction of vessel
were measured at different positions, as shown in Fig 1(b). The wave-amplitude images were
reconstructed by the peak displacements of shear wave amplitudes; while the wave-velocity
images were reconstructed by the shear wave velocities. In the study, the shear wave velocities
(cs) were simply estimated by the ratio of the distance between pushing and imaging element
(d) and time-to-peak (tpeak) as following equation:
cs=d/ tpeak (1)
The peak displacement and the velocity were assumed to be zero when the average
backscattered signals in the correlation window were smaller than a certain threshold (0.01
Vpp) for distinguishing from the lumen with saline solution. Data analyses were performed on
8
a personal computer using MATLAB (The MathWorks, Natick, MA, USA).
C. Gelatin phantom
The system performance was verified by constructing tissue-mimicking phantoms using
gelatin (type A, Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA) at different concentrations to simulate
soft tissues of various stiffnesses. The same concentration (3%) of graphite powder (Sigma-
Aldrich) was added to all gelatin phantoms as particles for producing backscattering. Two types
of phantom comprising gelatin at concentrations of 3% and 7% were used in this study. The
shear moduli of 3% and 7% gelatin were around 0.45 and 1.65 kPa, respectively [38, 39].
Diagrams of the gelatin phantoms are shown in Fig. 4. Phantom type I was manufactured by
embedding a 3%-gelatin rod into a 7%-gelatin background, and phantom type II was
manufactured by embedding a 7%-gelatin rod into a 3%-gelatin background. Each of these
phantoms had a 4-mm lumen in the center, and the diameter of the embedded rods was 3 mm.
The diameters of the background gelatins are all 35 mm. Because the stiffness of the gelatin
phantoms could be affected by the temperature, all of the experiments were performed at a
constant room temperature of 25<U+F0B0>C [40].
D. Aorta samples
Rabbit abdomen aorta was used in the ex vivo experiment in the study. Aorta
atherosclerosis was induced in a male New Zealand White rabbit by applying a combination of
a cholesterol-rich diet (containing 1.5% cholesterol) and FeCl3-induced injury to the arterial
walls [41]. One week after commencing a cholesterol-rich diet, the rabbit was anesthetized
intraperitoneally with ketamine (35 mg/kg), xylazine (5 mg/kg), and acepromazine (0.75
mg/kg). Anesthesia was maintained during the procedure with isoflurane inhalation via a face
mask. The rabbit was then placed in a dorsal recumbent position, and a midline abdomen
incision was made to surgically expose the aorta that was then carefully dissected out. The
arterial wall was then injured by placing a strip of filter paper (0.5 × 2.0 mm2) saturated in 5%
9
FeCl3 solution onto the adventitia of the mid portion of the artery for 5 minutes. The filter paper
was then removed, and the incision was sutured closed. The rabbit was sacrificed after 8 weeks,
and then tissue samples of aorta atherosclerosis were obtained.
The aorta was cut to a length of 8mm, which included the atherosclerotic portion. A
diameter of 2.6 mm tube was carefully inserted into the lumen of aorta and attached to the
central bottom of a plastic-circular container with size of 40 mm (diameter) x 10 mm (height).
A 9%-gelatin solution was poured into the container out of the aorta and then kept the container
at 5<U+F0B0>C for about 20 minutes for gelatin coagulation. After that, the tube was pulled out carefully
from the aorta. The container with aorta sample was placed on the rotating platform and saline
solution was injected into the lumen of aorta. The experiments were performed by inserting the
IVUS transducer into the lumen of aorta at a constant room temperature of 25<U+F0B0>C.
Results
The intensity of ARF of pushing element was measured by a calibrated hydrophone (HNP-
0200, Onda, Sunnyvale, CA, USA), which measurement was followed to our previous study
in detail [34]. The measured spatial peak temporal average intensity (ISPTA) values of the
excitation duration of the pushing element at various voltages are plotted in Figure 5. The
acoustic intensity increased linearly with the excitation duration and voltage. The maximum
and minimum ISPTA values were 412.9 and 19.0 mW/cm2 for excitation voltages of 170 and 85
V with excitation durations of 1.0 and 0.2 ms, respectively.
Advanced studies for developing an ARF-IVUS elasticity imaging system need to
determine the optimal excitation parameters (including input voltage and duration) for exciting
the transducer when generating the ARF. The system performance was verified by using the
phantoms constructed from the gelatin at concentrations of 3% and 7%. Figure 6 shows the
particle displacements induced by the pushing element in a homogeneous 3%-gelatin phantom.
The excitation voltage applied to the pushing element was varied from 85 to 170 V with the
10
tone-burst duration kept fixed at 1.0 ms. The peak displacements were measured from 0.4 to
2.4 µm, with tpeak ranged from 4.3 to 4.4 ms, as shown in Fig. 6(a). The peak displacement
increased with the excitation voltage, while the times at which the peak occurred were almost
identical in all cases. In a second series of experiments, the excitation duration of the ARF was
varied from 0.2 to 1.0 ms with a fixed excitation voltage of 170 V. Both the maximum
displacement and the time to reach it increased with the excitation duration, as shown in Fig.
6(b). The peak displacements were measured from 0.5 to 2.3 µm with tpeak ranged from 3.8 to
4.4 ms, as shown in Fig. 6(a).
It is expected that a higher ARF will induce greater displacements, and Fig. 6(a) and 6(b)
show that the peak displacements increased with the excitation time in the 3%-gelatin phantom.
Figure 7 further demonstrates the peak displacement and the velocity induced by the ARF
under excitation durations from 0.2 to 1 ms with a fixed excitation voltage of 170 V in the 3%-
and 7%-gelatin phantoms, respectively (as measured in four samples for each phantom type).
Data are mean ± standard deviation. The peak displacements were measured from 0.6±0.1 µm
to 2.1±0.4 µm in 3%-gelatin, and 0.5±0.1 µm to 1.6±0.1 µm in 7%-gelatin, for excitation
durations from 0.2 to 1 ms. The velocities were measured from 0.88±0.27 m/s to 0.64±0.04
m/s in 3%-gelatin, and 1.50±0.30 m/s to 1.44±0.19 m/s in 7%-gelatin. The results indicate that
a longer excitation duration resulted in greater differences in the peak displacement between
phantoms with different stiffnesses. In addition, the velocities keep almost identical when
applying the excitation duration from 0.4 to 1 ms. Since larger displacements and stable
velocities were easy to detect and analyze, the excitation parameters were set as 170 V and 1-
ms tone burst for the subsequent experiments involving the acquisition of high-resolution ARF
elasticity images.
In the subsequent 2D ARF-IVUS elasticity imaging experiments (Figure 8 and Figure 9),
the elasticity images were reconstructed based on the shear-wave propagation induced by the
11
ARF: the wave-amplitude images were formed from the peak displacements while the wave-
velocity images were formed from the shear-wave velocities through Equation (1). The pushing
element was driven by 170 V with 1-ms tone bursts. Figure 8 shows the B-mode images with
their corresponding wave-amplitude images and wave-velocity images for the gelatin
phantoms- type I and type II. The dark-blue region in the figure indicates where no
displacement or shear-wave velocity occurred, which was in the saline solution and the region
outside the field of view in both wave-amplitude and wave-velocity images. The darker region
in the center of the B-mode images in Fig. 8(a) and 8(d) correspond to the region of the saline
solution. For phantom type I, it is difficult to distinguish either the location or stiffness of the
inclusion regions in the B-mode image shown in Fig. 8(a). In contrast, the location and stiffness
of the softer rod located between 7 and 8 o’clock are evident in the wave-velocity image in Fig.
8(c). The velocities of the shear wave for the softer rod and the stiffer background was averaged
to be 0 .70 and 1.37 m/s, respectively. On the other hand, the softer rod is located in the wave-
amplitude image at around 7 o’clock in Fig. 8(b). The peak displacements of the shear wave
for the softer rod and the stiffer background was averaged to be 2.3 and 1.4 µm, respectively.
For phantom type II, an inhomogeneity with bright speckles located between 8 and 9 o’clock
in the B-mode image in Fig. 8(d) corresponds to the stiffer rod. Although the location of the
stiffer rod is distinguished from the softer background in the B-mode image, this image does
not provide any information about the stiffness distribution. In contrast, the stiffness
distribution of the phantom is apparent in the wave-amplitude and wave-velocity images in Fig.
8(e) and 8(f), respectively. The measured peak displacement and shear-wave velocity were
averaged to be 1.6 µm and 1.42 m/s, respectively, for the stiffer rod, and 2.2 µm and 0.76 m/s
for the softer background. The experimental results obtained from the phantoms verified that
stiffness variations within the microstructure tissues can be detected by the ARF-IVUS
elasticity imaging system.
12
Figure 9 shows the typical B-mode image and its corresponding wave-amplitude image
and wave-velocity image for the rabbit aorta with a lipid-diet induced plaque. The presence of
the atherosclerotic lesion results in significant nonuniformity in the morphology in the B-mode
image, as shown in Fig. 9(a). While the use of high-frequency ultrasound to produce a
conventional B-mode image is helpful for identifying the arterial structure, the speckle pattern
cannot be directly related to the elastic properties [42]. In contrast, the distribution of stiffness
in the atherosclerotic region can be observed in the wave-amplitude image and the wave-
velocity image, as also shown in Fig. 9(b) and 9(c), respectively. The softer region is located
between 6 and 8 o’clock, which the average peak displacement was 3.7±1.2 µm and the average
wave velocity was 0.38±0.19 m/s. However, the peak displacement and the velocity in the rest
region was averaged to be 1.0±0.2 µm and 3.45±0.45 m/s, respectively. It is noted that the
values of the elastographic map in Figure 9 were normalized after log compression because of
the large variation in each map.
Discussion
The intensities generated by the pushing element under different excitation parameters
(eq. excitation durations and excitation voltages) in the study are within the restrictions
specified by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The regulatory acoustic intensities
from diagnostic ultrasound equipment are 430 mW/cm2 for cardiac according to the “Guidance
for Industry and FDA Staff—Information for Manufacturers Seeking Marketing Clearance of
Diagnostic Ultrasound Systems and Transducers” [43]. The acoustic intensity of IVUS
imaging is included in cardiac applications in the regulation. The maximum acoustic intensity
of 412.9 mW/cm2 used in the present study is lower than the regulatory intensity of 430
mW/cm2. In other words, the maximum acoustic intensity used in this study for ARF-IVUS
elasticity imaging is consistent with the regulatory limit specified by the FDA for IVUS
imaging applications. This is also the reason why the maximum excitation parameter for this
13
system is under 170 V with 1 ms tone burst.
The concept of combining ARF elasticity imaging and IVUS imaging for detecting and
characterizing atherosclerotic plaques was recently realized by using ARFI technique instead
of SWEI technique. To date, two ARFI-IVUS system have been proposed: (1) Two modified
commercial IVUS transducers (with central frequencies of 9 and 18 MHz) were used to
generate an ARF in a programmable ultrasound imaging system. The system could generate
sufficient radiation forces to induce displacements of 2.2 and 0.7 µm in a phantom with a
Young’s modulus of 3.0 kPa when using 9- and 18-MHz IVUS transducers, respectively [44].
(2) Dual-frequency IVUS transducers with 6.5 MHz and 30 MHz were fabricated using stacked
piezoelectric plates with two co-aligned beams. The lower frequency element of the transducer
generated an ARF that induced displacements of ~1.5 µm in an 8.1 kPa phantom, and the higher
frequency element measured the backscatter from the phantom [36]. Those studies
demonstrated the feasibility of ARF-induced IVUS imaging, but data for biological tissue were
not reported. Compared to those studies, our system could generate the ARF to induce the
displacements of 2.1 µm and 1.6 µm in the phantoms with Young’s modulus of 1.35 and 4.95
kPa (transformed from the values in shear moduli with Poisson ratio of 0.5), respectively. Since
the pushing beam and the imaging beam in our system are not on the same axis, the detected
displacements decreased due to the shear wave attenuation in the phantoms between pushing
and imaging beam. However, the magnitudes of displacements are still large enough to image
and analyze. The present study is also the first intravascular elastography based on the shear
wave elasticity imaging technique.
Figure 7(a) and 7(b) demonstrates that the differences in velocity between the 3%- and
7%-gelatin phantoms were much larger than in the peak displacement responses for variable
excitation times from 0.2 to 1 ms at an excitation voltage of 170 V. This results are consistent
with previous studies finding that the temporal behavior of tissue displacements induced by
14
ARF is more useful than the spatial behavior for distinguishing differences in the elastic tissues
[38]. The speed (cs) of a shear wave propagating in a linear, isotropic, elastic material is related
to the tissue shear modulus (µ) and the tissue density (<U+03C1>) according to:
<U+0001D450><U+0001D460> = v<U+0001D707>/<U+0001D70C> (2)
In this study, the shear-wave velocities measured in the 3%- and 7%-gelatin phantoms were
around 0.6 and 1.4 m/s, respectively. Assuming that the density of the phantom is 1000 g/cm3,
the calculated shear moduli of these two phantoms are 0.36 and 1.96 kPa, respectively, using
equation (2). These results are consistent with the above-mentioned studies finding that the
shear moduli of 3% and 7% gelatin were around 0.45 and 1.65 kPa, respectively [38, 39]. The
results also indicate that the system could be used to distinguish the elasticity differences of at
least 1.6 kPa (shear modulus) between different tissues.
The shear-wave velocity measured in the red region in Fig. 9(c) was average to be 3.45
m/s, which is consistent with the previous reports of the shear-wave velocity in arteries being
typically in the range of 3 to 7 m/s [45-47]. However, when the shear wave propagates in a thin
plate or a thin hollow cylinder surrounding by liquids, with the geometry close to that of an
artery, the wave would be reflected by the boundaries of the medium, resulting in complex
shear wave propagation, so-called Lamb wave. Since Lamb wave are highly dispersive, the
elastic properties of the artery have been estimated by fitting the dispersion curve between
phase velocity and frequency to an anti-symmetric Lamb wave model [29, 48, 49]. In the
present study, the IVUS transducer was manufactured with two elements which were
responsible to push and track the tissues simultaneously. Since the distance between two
elements was fixed, which gave rise to difficulties in measuring the phase changes at several
locations along the wave propagation direction. However, this limitation can be overcome by
using an empirical analytical formula to approximate the phase velocity (cp) based on the group
velocity (cg) at a certain frequency according to [29, 50]:
15
c<U+0001D45D> (<U+03C9>) = v<U+0001D714>h<U+0001D450><U+0001D454> /2v3 (3)
where h is the thickness of the artery, <U+03C9> is the angular frequency, cg=cs is the group velocity
we measured. Therefore, the quantified shear modulus can be estimated by:
<U+0001D707> = 12<U+0001D70C><U+0001D450><U+0001D460> 4 (<U+0001D714>)/h2 <U+0001D714>2 (4)
In the study, the thickness of the artery was measured about 1 mm, the central frequency of the
generated wave spectrum was 1200 Hz, the group velocity of the arterial wall was averaged to
be 3.45 m/s, so its corresponding shear modulus was calculated to be 29.9 kPa through
Equation (4). According to the previous literature, the elasticity range of the artery is very large,
spanning a few orders of magnitude from tens to hundreds of kPa depending on many
parameters such as testing conditions, species, and most importantly, measurement technique
[48, 51-54]. However, our results of the arterial elasticity are within the same order as the study
using the Lamb wave model, which reported that the shear elasticity of porcine carotid artery
was measured from 24.22 to 44.71 kPa [48].
A lipid-rich plaque is more dangerous than other types of plaques because it is more
unstable and prone to rupture. A ruptured plaque could easily block the lumen of a small artery
and cause thrombosis that leads to acute infraction and sudden coronary death [6, 9, 10]. A
reliable index for predicting the rupture of a lipid-rich plaque would be strongly influenced by
its viscoelastic properties [55]. The formation of a lipid-rich plaque is the essential mechanism
in the early development of a rupture-prone plaque [56]. Previous studies have measured the
shear modulus of lipid-rich plaques at around 0.07 to 0.3 kPa in vitro [57] and approximately
0.7 kPa in vivo [58]; these values are similar to those of the 3%-gelatin phantom in the present
study. This close correspondence indicates that it is reasonable to use a gelatin phantom to
represent a lipid-rich plaque when performing system verification. Moreover, in the rabbit
atherosclerosis experiment, the average shear-wave velocity in the softer region was measured
0.38 m/s, as shown in Fig. 9(c), and its corresponding shear modulus was calculated to be 0.06
16
kPa by using Equation 4 with the measured central frequency of 330 Hz and thickness of 1 mm.
The estimated value falls within the range of the elasticities of vulnerable lipid-rich plaques
mentioned above [58].
In the phantom experiments in Figure 8, the artifacts were found in both wave-amplitude
and wave-velocity images, the reason may be attributed to a viscous response from the gelatin
gels. Viscosity can be considered as an additional and cumulative low-pass filtering effect and
makes the temporal shape of displacement more boarder, which distorts the image of the shear
wave propagation [59, 60]. Several groups further focused on the viscous issues: based on the
viscoelastic inclusion simulation and experiment, Orescanin et al. indicated that the degree of
distortion in elastographic image increases with viscosity [59]; the results from Bercoff et al.
also demonstrated that the inference of viscosity largely affects the shear wave shape in near
field area than in far field area [60]. These may be the reasons to induce artifacts and lead the
inclusion to present as a dispersive shape in the wave images in Figure 8. Therefore, although
the 3%-gelatin phantom has similar elastic properties with lipid-pool plaque. The viscous
response is different to the plaques.
Although the elasticity of the artery and the plaque can be approximated by using the
empirical analytical formula (Equation 3 and 4), it is still necessary to quantify the entire
dispersion behavior of the shear wave in order to completely characterize the mechanical
properties of the artery and the plaque for obtaining more accurate mechanical properties
(including elasticity and viscosity), and which will be the aim of our future work. Nevertheless,
the original motivation for this work was to test a novel idea for applying ARF elasticity
imaging to IVUS by using a dual-frequency IVUS transducer for the purpose of plaque and
arterial wall characterization. The obtained results demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed
ARF-IVUS elasticity imaging system that is based on using the peak displacement and velocity
of shear wave as simple metrics for distinguishing the arterial wall and a plaque.
17
The resolution of the present method of ARF-IVUS elasticity imaging could be further
improved by using a detecting element operating at a higher frequency, such as a 60- to 120-
MHz IVUS transducer, which is the highest frequency used in a multi-frequency IVUS
application [61]. However, there is an another resolution issue about the fore-and-aft elements
alignment of the transducer in this study. To reduce the higher interferences between imaging
and pushing element, the distance between these two elements is about 0.5 mm. It means that
the reconstructed shear wave velocity image is actually a hollow cylinder along with axial
direction and each velocity value mixed of several elastic components within the traveling trail
of shear wave propagation. It might lead an inaccurate estimation of elastic properties of the
heterogeneous region in plaque or arterial wall. Therefore, a newly designed transducer aligned
with more than two imaging elements spacing in a smaller distance is still necessary for
applying to in vivo applications in the future.
Conclusion
The feasibility of IVUS elasticity imaging based on ARF elasticity techniques was
demonstrated in the study. A dual-frequency IVUS transducer with two elements was
successfully used to induce shear wave propagation which could be simultaneously monitored.
Suitable excitation parameters used to drive the pushing element of the system for producing
the acoustic radiation force have been found and measured within the restriction of FDA
limitation. The phantom results demonstrated that the system can distinguish the regions with
different stiffnesses through the wave-amplitude image and the wave-velocity image which
was respectively reconstructed by measuring the peak displacement and the wave velocity of
shear wave propagation. Moreover, stiffness distributions of the atherosclerotic aorta from the
rabbit could be obtained from these elastographic images. All the results demonstrate that the
ARF-IVUS elasticity imaging system has potential for further developing for clinical
applications.
18
19
Ethics
The animal experiments in this study were conducted in accordance with the guidelines
for experimental animals established by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee
(IACUC) at National Cheng Kung University. The animal experiments were approved by the
IACUC.
Data accessibility
The datasets from this study are publically available on the Dryad Digital Repository
(https://doi:10.5061/dryad.h862n) [62]
Competing interests
The authors declare no competing interests.
Authors' contributions
C.C.S and C.C.H designed the study, conducted all experiments and participated in data
analysis/interpretation. P.Y.C assisted with phantom and ex-vivo experiments; T.M. and Q.Z.
fabricated the transducer. K.K.S conceived of the study and coordinated the study. All authors
contributed to drafting the manuscript.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank Yu-Min Kuo’s group from department of Cell Biology and
Anatomy College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University in Taiwan for technique
support in animal surgery.
Funding
This work was supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology of Taiwan under grant
MOST 104-2628-E-006 -006 -MY3, and in part, supported by the Ministry of Education,
Taiwan. The aim for the Top University Project to the National Cheng Kung University
(NCKU).
20
References
1. Corti, R., Farkouh, M. E., Badimon, J. J. 2002 The vulnerable plaque and acute coronary
syndromes. Am. J. Med. 113, 668-680. (doi: 10.1016/S0002-9343(02)01344-X)
2. Libby, P., Ridker, P. M., Maseri, A. 2002 Inflammation and atherosclerosis. Circulation.
105, 1135-1143. (doi: 10.1161/hc0902.104353)
3. Falk, E., Shah, P. K., Fuster, V. 1995 Coronary Plaque Disruption. Circulation. 92, 657-
671. (doi: 10.1161/01.cir.92.3.657)
4. Go, A. S., Mozaffarian, D., Roger, V. L., Benjamin, E. J., Berry, J. D., Blaha, M. J., Dai,
S., Ford, E. S., Fox, C. S., Franco, S., et al. 2014 Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics—
2014 Update: A Report From the American Heart Association. Circulation. 129, e28-e292.
(doi: 10.1161/01.cir.0000441139.02102.80)
5. Virmani, R., Burke, A. P., Farb, A., Kolodgie, F. D. 2006 Pathology of the Vulnerable
Plaque. J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 47, C13-C18. (doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2005.10.065)
6. Finet, G., Ohayon, J., Rioufol, G. 2004 Biomechanical interaction between cap thickness,
lipid core composition and blood pressure in vulnerable coronary plaque: impact on
stability or instability. Coron. Artery Dis. 15, 13-20. (doi:
10.1097/01.mca.0000111914.34652.f9)
7. Cheng, G. C., Loree, H. M., Kamm, R. D., Fishbein, M. C., Lee, R. T. 1993 Distribution
of circumferential stress in ruptured and stable atherosclerotic lesions. A structural analysis
with histopathological correlation. Circulation. 87, 1179-1187. (doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.87.4.1179)
8. Ohayon, J., Finet, G., Le Floc’h, S., Cloutier, G., Gharib, A. M., Heroux, J., Pettigrew, R.
I. 2014 Biomechanics of atherosclerotic coronary plaque: site, stability and in vivo
elasticity modeling. Ann Biomed Eng. 42, 269-279. (doi: 10.1007/s10439-013-0888-1)
9. Katouzian, A., Sathyanarayana, S., Baseri, B., Konofagou, E. E., Carlier, S. G. 2008
21
Challenges in atherosclerotic plaque characterization with intravascular ultrasound (IVUS):
from data collection to classification. IEEE Trans. Inf. Technol. Biomed. 12, 315-327. (doi:
10.1109/TITB.2007.912352)
10. Baldewsing, R. A., Danilouchkine, M. G., Mastik, F., Schaar, J. A., Serruys, P. W., van der
Steen, A. F. 2008 An inverse method for imaging the local elasticity of atherosclerotic
coronary plaques. IEEE Trans. Inf. Technol. Biomed. 12, 277-289. (doi:
10.1109/TITB.2007.907980)
11. De Korte, C. L., Pasterkamp, G., Van Der Steen, A. F., Woutman, H. A., Bom, N. 2000
Characterization of plaque components with intravascular ultrasound elastography in
human femoral and coronary arteries in vitro. Circulation. 102, 617-623. (doi:
10.1161/01.CIR.102.6.617)
12. Jansen, K., van Soest, G., van der Steen, A. F. 2014 Intravascular Photoacoustic Imaging:
A New Tool for Vulnerable Plaque Identification. Ultrasound Med. Biol. 40, 1037-1048.
(doi: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2014.01.008)
13. Li, X., Li, J., Jing, J., Ma, T., Liang, S., Zhang, J., Mohar, D., Raney, A., Mahon, S.,
Brenner, M. 2014 Integrated IVUS-OCT imaging for atherosclerotic plaque
characterization. IEEE J. Sel. Top. Quantum Electron. 20, 196-203. (doi:
10.1109/JSTQE.2013.2274724)
14. Gardner, C. M., Tan, H., Hull, E. L., Lisauskas, J. B., Sum, S. T., Meese, T. M., Jiang, C.,
Madden, S. P., Caplan, J. D., Burke, A. P. 2008 Detection of lipid core coronary plaques in
autopsy specimens with a novel catheter-based near-infrared spectroscopy system. JACC:
Cardiovascular Imaging. 1, 638-648. (doi: 10.1016/j.jcmg.2008.06.001)
15. Ophir, J., Cespedes, I., Ponnekanti, H., Yazdi, Y., Li, X. 1991 Elastography: a quantitative
method for imaging the elasticity of biological tissues. Ultrason. Imaging. 13, 111-134.
(doi: 10.1177/016173469101300201)
22
16. De Korte, C. L., Cespedes, E. I., Van Der Steen, A. F., Pasterkamp, G., Bom, N. 1998
Intravascular ultrasound elastography: assessment and imaging of elastic properties of
diseased arteries and vulnerable plaque. Eur. J. Ultrasound. 7, 219-224. (doi:
10.1016/S0929-8266(98)00043-3)
17. Cespedes, E., De Korte, C., Van Der Steen, A. 2000 Intraluminal ultrasonic palpation:
assessment of local and cross-sectional tissue stiffness. Ultrasound Med. Biol. 26, 385-396.
(doi: 10.1016/S0301-5629(99)00169-6)
18. Doyley, M., Mastik, F., De Korte, C., Carlier, S., Cespedes, E., Serruys, P., Bom, N., Van
der Steen, A. 2001 Advancing intravascular ultrasonic palpation toward clinical
applications. Ultrasound Med. Biol. 27, 1471-1480. (doi: 10.1016/S0301-5629(01)00457-
4)
19. de Korte, C. L., Carlier, S. G., Mastik, F., Doyley, M. M., van der Steen, A. F. W., Serruys,
P. W., Bom, N. 2002 Morphological and mechanical information of coronary arteries
obtained with intravascular elastography. Feasibility study in vivo. Eur. Heart. J. 23, 405-
413. (doi: 10.1053/euhj.2001.2806)
20. Nightingale, K. R., Palmeri, M. L., Nightingale, R. W., Trahey, G. E. 2001 On the
feasibility of remote palpation using acoustic radiation force. J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 110, 625.
(doi: 10.1121/1.1378344)
21. Trahey, G. E., Palmeri, M. L., Bentley, R. C., Nightingale, K. R. 2004 Acoustic radiation
force impulse imaging of the mechanical properties of arteries: in vivo and ex vivo results.
Ultrasound Med. Biol. 30, 1163-1171. (doi: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2004.07.022)
22. Sarvazyan, A. P., Rudenko, O. V., Swanson, S. D., Fowlkes, J. B., Emelianov, S. Y. 1998
Shear wave elasticity imaging: a new ultrasonic technology of medical diagnostics.
Ultrasound Med Biol. 24, 1419-1435. (doi: 10.1016/S0301-5629(98)00110-0)
23. Dahl, J. J., Dumont, D. M., Allen, J. D., Miller, E. M., Trahey, G. E. 2009 Acoustic
23
radiation force impulse imaging for noninvasive characterization of carotid artery
atherosclerotic plaques: a feasibility study. Ultrasound Med. Biol. 35, 707-716. (doi:
10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2008.11.001)
24. Dumont, D., Behler, R. H., Nichols, T. C., Merricks, E. P., Gallippi, C. M. 2006 ARFI
imaging for noninvasive material characterization of atherosclerosis. Ultrasound Med.
Biol. 32, 1703-1711. (doi: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2006.07.014)
25. Allen, J., Dumont, D., Fahey, B., Miller, E., Dahl, J., Trahey, G. 2009 Lower-limb vascular
imaging with acoustic radiation force elastography: demonstration of in vivo feasibility.
IEEE Trans. Ultrason. Ferroelectr. Freq. Control. 56, 931-944. (doi:
10.1109/TUFFC.2009.1126)
26. Doherty, J. R., Dumont, D. M., Trahey, G. E., Palmeri, M. L. 2013 Acoustic radiation force
impulse imaging of vulnerable plaques: a finite element method parametric analysis. J.
Biomech. 46, 83-90. (doi: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2012.10.006)
27. Czernuszewicz, T. J., Homeister, J. W., Caughey, M. C., Farber, M. A., Fulton, J. J., Ford,
P. F., Marston, W. A., Vallabhaneni, R., Nichols, T. C., Gallippi, C. M. 2015 Non-invasive
in Vivo Characterization of Human Carotid Plaques with Acoustic Radiation Force
Impulse Ultrasound: Comparison with Histology after Endarterectomy. Ultrasound Med.
Biol. 41, 685-697. (doi: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2014.09.016)
28. Behler, R. H., Czernuszewicz, T. J., Wu, C. D., Nichols, T. C., Zhu, H., Homeister, J. W.,
Merricks, E. P., Gallippi, C. M. 2013 Acoustic radiation force beam sequence performance
for detection and material characterization of atherosclerotic plaques: preclinical, ex vivo
results. IEEE Trans Ultrason Ferroelectr Freq Control. 60, 2471-2487. (doi:
10.1109/TUFFC.2013.2847)
29. Couade, M., Pernot, M., Prada, C., Messas, E., Emmerich, J., Bruneval, P., Criton, A., Fink,
M., Tanter, M. 2010 Quantitative Assessment of Arterial Wall Biomechanical Properties
24
Using Shear Wave Imaging. Ultrasound Med. Biol. 36, 1662-1676. (doi:
10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2010.07.004)
30. Deffieux, T., Gennisson, J. l., Bercoff, J., Tanter, M. 2011 On the effects of reflected waves
in transient shear wave elastography. IEEE Trans. Ultrason. Ferroelectr. Freq. Control. 58,
2032-2035. (doi: 10.1109/TUFFC.2011.2052)
31. Shcherbakova, D., Papadacci, C., Swillens, A., Caenen, A., De Bock, S., Saey, V., Chiers,
K., Tanter, M., Greenwald, S., Pernot, M. 2014 Supersonic shear wave imaging to assess
arterial nonlinear behavior and anisotropy: proof of principle via ex vivo testing of the
horse aorta. Adv. Mech. Eng. 6, 272586. (doi: 10.1155/2014/272586)
32. Ramnarine, K. V., Garrard, J. W., Kanber, B., Nduwayo, S., Hartshorne, T. C., Robinson,
T. G. 2014 Shear wave elastography imaging of carotid plaques: feasible, reproducible and
of clinical potential. Cardiovascular ultrasound. 12, 1. (doi: 10.1186/1476-7120-12-49)
33. Shih, C. C., Huang, C. C., Zhou, Q., Shung, K. K. 2013 High-resolution acoustic-radiation-
force-impulse imaging for assessing corneal sclerosis. IEEE Trans. Med. Imaging. 32,
1316-1324. (doi: 10.1109/TMI.2013.2256794)
34. Shih, C.-C., Lai, T.-Y., Huang, C.-C. 2016 Evaluating the intensity of the acoustic radiation
force impulse (ARFI) in intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) imaging: Preliminary in vitro
results. Ultrasonics. 70, 64-74. (doi: 10.1016/j.ultras.2016.04.017)
35. Ma, J., Martin, K. H., Dayton, P. A., Jiang, X. 2014 A preliminary engineering design of
intravascular dual-frequency transducers for contrast-enhanced acoustic angiography and
molecular imaging. IEEE Trans. Ultrason. Ferroelectr. Freq. Control. 61, 870-880. (doi:
10.1109/TUFFC.2014.2977)
36. Czernuszewicz, T. J., Gallippi, C. M., Zhuochen, W., Jianguo, M., Xiaoning, J. 2014
Acoustic radiation force (ARF) generation with a novel dual-frequency intravascular
transducer. 2014 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium (IUS); 2014 3-6 Sept., p.
25
2284-2287. (doi: 10.1109/ULTSYM.2014.0569)
37. Lubinski, M. A., Emelianov, S. Y., O'Donnell, M. 1999 Speckle tracking methods for
ultrasonic elasticity imaging using short-time correlation. IEEE Trans. Ultrason.
Ferroelectr. Freq. Control. 46, 82-96. (doi: 10.1109/58.741427)
38. Huang, C. C., Shih, C. C., Liu, T. Y., Lee, P. Y. 2011 Assessing the viscoelastic properties
of thrombus using a solid-sphere-based instantaneous force approach. Ultrasound Med.
Biol. 37, 1722-1733. (doi: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2011.06.026)
39. Huang, C. C., Chen, P. Y., Shih, C. C. 2013 Estimating the viscoelastic modulus of a
thrombus using an ultrasonic shear-wave approach. Med. Phys. 40, 042901. (doi:
10.1118/1.4794493)
40. Karpiouk, A. B., Aglyamov, S. R., Ilinskii, Y. A., Zabolotskaya, E. A., Emelianov, S. Y.
2009 Assessment of Shear Modulus of Tissue Using Ultrasound Radiation Force Acting
on a Spherical Acoustic Inhomogeneity. IEEE Trans. Ultrason. Ferroelectr. Freq. Control.
56, 2380-2387. (doi: 10.1109/Tuffc.2009.1326)
41. Tian, J., Hu, S., Sun, Y., Ban, X., Yu, H., Dong, N., Wu, J., Yu, B. 2012 A novel model of
atherosclerosis in rabbits using injury to arterial walls induced by ferric chloride as
evaluated by optical coherence tomography as well as intravascular ultrasound and
histology. BioMed Research International. 2012, (doi: 10.1155/2012/121867)
42. Tsui, P. H., Huang, C. C., Chang, C. C., Wang, S. H., Shung, K. K. 2007 Feasibility study
of using high-frequency ultrasonic Nakagami imaging for characterizing the cataract lens
in vitro. Phys Med Biol. 52, 6413-6425. (doi: 10.1088/0031-9155/52/21/005)
43. US Food Drug Administration. 2012 Guidance for industry and FDA staff information for
manufacturers seeking marketing clearance of diagnosticultrasound systems and
transducers.
44. Patel, V., Dahl, J. J., Bradway, D. P., Doherty, J. R., Lee, S. Y., Smith, S. W. 2014 Acoustic
26
Radiation Force Impulse Imaging (ARFI) on an IVUS Circular Array. Ultrason. Imaging.
36, 98-111. (doi: 10.1177/0161734613511595)
45. Tierney, Á. P., Dumont, D. M., Callanan, A., Trahey, G. E., McGloughlin, T. M. 2010
Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse Imaging on ex vivo Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm
Model. Ultrasound Med. Biol. 36, 821-832. (doi: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2010.02.018)
46. Zhang, X., Greenleaf, J. F. 2006 Measurement of wave velocity in arterial walls with
ultrasound transducers. Ultrasound Med. Biol. 32, 1655-1660. (doi:
10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2006.04.004)
47. Zhang, X., Kinnick, R. R., Fatemi, M., Greenleaf, J. F. 2005 Noninvasive method for
estimation of complex elastic modulus of arterial vessels. IEEE Trans. Ultrason.
Ferroelectr. Freq. Control. 52, 642-652. (doi: 10.1109/TUFFC.2005.1428047)
48. Bernal, M., Nenadic, I., Urban, M. W., Greenleaf, J. F. 2011 Material property estimation
for tubes and arteries using ultrasound radiation force and analysis of propagating modes.
J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 129, 1344-1354. (doi: 10.1121/1.3533735)
49. Widman, E., Maksuti, E., Larsson, D., Urban, M. W., Bjällmark, A., Larsson, M. 2015
Shear wave elastography plaque characterization with mechanical testing validation: a
phantom study. Phys. Med. Biol. 60, 3151. (doi: 10.1088/0031-9155/60/8/3151)
50. Tanter, M., Touboul, D., Gennisson, J. L., Bercoff, J., Fink, M. 2009 High-Resolution
Quantitative Imaging of Cornea Elasticity Using Supersonic Shear Imaging. IEEE Trans.
Med. Imaging. 28, 1881-1893. (doi: 10.1109/Tmi.2009.2021471)
51. Matthews, P. B., Azadani, A. N., Jhun, C.-S., Ge, L., Guy, T. S., Guccione, J. M., Tseng,
E. E. 2010 Comparison of porcine pulmonary and aortic root material properties. Ann.
Thorac. Surg. 89, 1981-1988. (doi: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2010.03.002)
52. Garcia, M., Kassab, G. S. 2009 Right coronary artery becomes stiffer with increase in
elastin and collagen in right ventricular hypertrophy. J. Appl. Physiol. 106, 1338-1346.
27
(doi: 10.1152/japplphysiol.90592.2008)
53. Gundiah, N., Matthews, P. B., Karimi, R., Azadani, A., Guccione, J., Guy, T. S., Saloner,
D., Tseng, E. E. 2008 Significant material property differences between the porcine
ascending aorta and aortic sinuses. J. Heart Valve. Dis. 17, 606. (doi:
10.1016/j.ejcts.2010.08.056 )
54. Vappou, J., Luo, J., Konofagou, E. E. 2010 Pulse wave imaging for noninvasive and
quantitative measurement of arterial stiffness in vivo. Am. J. Hypertens. 23, 393-398. (doi:
10.1038/ajh.2009.272)
55. Schaar, J. A., Muller, J. E., Falk, E., Virmani, R., Fuster, V., Serruys, P. W., Colombo, A.,
Stefanadis, C., Ward Casscells, S., Moreno, P. R., et al. 2004 Terminology for high-risk
and vulnerable coronary artery plaques. Eur. Heart J. 25, 1077-1082. (doi:
10.1016/j.ehj.2004.01.002)
56. Thim, T., Hagensen, M. K., Bentzon, J. F., Falk, E. 2008 From vulnerable plaque to
atherothrombosis. J. Intern. Med. 263, 506-516. (doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.2008.01947.x)
57. Loree, H. M., Tobias, B. J., Gibson, L. J., Kamm, R. D., Small, D. M., Lee, R. T. 1994
Mechanical properties of model atherosclerotic lesion lipid pools. Arterioscler. Thromb.
14, 230-234. (doi: 10.1161/01.atv.14.2.230)
58. Baldewsing, R. A., Schaar, J. A., Mastik, F., Oomens, C. W. J., Steen, A. F. W. v. d. 2005
Assessment of vulnerable plaque composition by matching the deformation of a parametric
plaque model to measured plaque deformation. IEEE Trans. Med. Imaging. 24, 514-528.
(doi: 10.1109/TMI.2005.844170)
59. Orescanin, M., Wang, Y., Insana, M. F. 2011 3-D FDTD simulation of shear waves for
evaluation of complex modulus imaging. IEEE Trans. Ultrason. Ferroelectr. Freq. Control.
58, (doi: 10.1109/TUFFC.2011.1816)
60. Bercoff, J., Tanter, M., Muller, M., Fink, M. 2004 The role of viscosity in the impulse
28
diffraction field of elastic waves induced by the acoustic radiation force. IEEE Trans.
Ultrason. Ferroelectr. Freq. Control. 51, 1523-1536. (doi: 10.1109/TUFFC.2011.1816)
61. Ma, T., Yu, M., Chen, Z., Fei, C., Shung, K. K., Zhou, Q. 2015 Multi-frequency
intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) imaging. IEEE Trans. Ultrason. Ferroelectr. Freq.
Control. 62, 97-107. (doi: 10.1109/TUFFC.2014.006679)
62. Shih, C. C., Chen, P. Y., Ma, T., Zhou, Q., Shung, K. K., Huang, C. C. 2018 Data from:
Development of an intravascular ultrasound elastography based on a dual-element
transducer. Dryad Digital Repository. (https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.h862n)
29
Figure Captions
Figure 1. Scanning scheme of the ARF-IVUS elasticity imaging system. Photograph of the
dual-frequency IVUS transducer (a). Scanning method of the transducer inside the
artery (b).
Figure 2. Block diagram of the experimental system.
Figure 3. Representative timing diagram for the experiments. Pushing pulses produced by the
8.5-MHz element were synchronized (with a 2-ms delay) with the initial imaging
pulses of the 31-MHz element.
Figure 4. Sketches of the two types of gelatin phantom: type I, containing the softer rod (3%
gelatin) (a); and type II, containing the harder rod (7% gelatin) (b).
Figure 5. Acoustic intensities (ISPTA values) generated by the 8.5-MHz element measured by a
hydrophone for different excitation voltages (85, 130, 145, 160, and 170 V) and for
excitation durations from 0.2 to 1.0 ms with a step of 0.2 ms.
Figure 6. Dynamic displacement curves measured in a 3%-gelatin phantom for excitation
voltages from 85 to 170 V at a fixed excitation duration of 1 ms (a) and for excitation
durations from 0.2 to 1 ms at a fixed excitation voltage of 170 V (b).
Figure 7. Peak displacement (a) and velocity (b) of the shear-wave propagation in the 3%- and
7%-gelatin phantoms for excitation durations from 0.2 to 1 ms at a fixed excitation
voltage of 170 V. Data are mean and SD values.
Figure 8. B-mode image (a), wave-amplitude image (b), and wave-velocity image (c) for
phantom type I. B-mode image (d), wave-amplitude image (e), and wave-velocity
image (f) for phantom type II.
Figure 9. Ex vivo experiments for a rabbit aorta with a lipid-diet-induced plaque. B-mode
image (a), wave-amplitude image (b) and wave-velocity image (c).
30
Appendix B
Reply to reviewer comments
For Reviewer 1
General comments
The authors present a well-written manuscript, which describes the use of a novel
intravascular dual-frequency ultrasound transducer for the measurement of shear modulus
in vitro and ex vivo.
Reply:
We sincerely appreciate the suggestions from the Reviewer. They have greatly assisted us
in improving the manuscript. We have revised the manuscript in accordance with the reviewer’s
comments.
Specific Comments
1) P2 L14-15: Please state the average and the standard deviation of the measured values
of peak displacement and velocity in the abstract.
Reply:
The stiffness distributions of the atherosclerotic aorta from a rabbit were obtained, which
the values of peak displacement and the shear-wave velocity were 3.7±1.2 µm and 0.38±0.19
m/s for the lipid-rich plaques, respectively, and 1.0±0.2 µm and 3.45±0.45 m/s for the arterial
walls.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 2, Line 13-16
2) P3 L15: This sentence is structured incorrectly and you are using the word predication, I
think you may mean prediction.
Reply:
We are sorry for the mistake. The sentence has been modified in the revised manuscript as
follows:
“The accurate geometric features of plaque and surrounding vessel wall have been well
presented by current imaging modalities. Therefore, the challenge to predict the plaque ruptures
would depend on the precise knowledge of the mechanical properties of the arterial wall and
plaque.”
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 3, Line 13-16
3) P4 L3: Why is spectroscopy at the end of the sentence? Remove this.
Reply:
We are sorry for this mistake. The redundant word has been removed in the revised
manuscript.
4) P4 L4: Remove full stop after plaque, replace with a comma.
Reply:
It is our negligence. We have corrected the sentence in the revised manuscript.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 4, Line 3-5
5) P4 L8: I would say elastography is an imaging technique rather than an imaging
technology.
Reply:
Sorry for using the wrong word. The word has been replaced according to Reviewer’s
comment.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 4, Line 8
6) P5 L1: Aren’t you just measuring the average displacement within the ROE with ARFI –
ARFI does not allow you to differentiation motions of different pats of the ROE and therefore
cannot measure deformation of the ROE.
Reply:
Thanks for the suggestion. We have replaced the word “deformation” with “localized
displacement” in the revised manuscript.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 5, Line 1
7) P8 L8-9: (a)This sentence is incorrect. (b)More explanation is needed here. How did you
ensure there was no ringing after the bust – did you measure the pressure wave a
hydrophone?
Reply:
(a) We apologize for the incorrect sentence. It has been corrected in the revised manuscript as
follow: “However, the imaging element was affected largely by the pushing element as
two elements were activated simultaneously.”
(b) No, we didn’t measure the pressure wave of imaging element on the transducer by a
hydrophone. However, the imaging element was affected largely by the pushing element
as two elements were activated simultaneously (the received echo signal was coupled by
the pushing burst), as shown in Figure 1 in reply. Therefore, a delay of excitation between
two elements is needed in this study.
(a) (b) (c)
Figure 1 in reply. The echo signal received by the imaging element before the bursts fired(a),
during the burst (b) and after the burst (c) in the 3%-gelatin phantom.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 8, Line 9-11
8) P10 L4: The aorta was cut to a length of 8mm, which included the atherosclerotic portion.
Reply:
Thanks for correcting the sentence structure. It made the statement much clearer.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 10, Line 5
9) P10 L8: There is a symbol error. Also, the sentence is incorrect you should use the past
tense throughout.
Reply:
It is our negligence. The sentence has been modified as follows:
“A 9%-gelatin solution was poured into the container out of the aorta and then kept the
container at 5<U+F0B0>C for about 20 minutes for gelatin coagulation.”
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 10, Line 8-9
10) P11 L21: Should be larger not lager.
Reply:
We apologize for this spelling error. The word has been corrected in the revised manuscript.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 11, Line 22
11) P12 L9: Should be regions plural.
Reply:
We are sorry for this mistake. The word has been corrected in the revised manuscript.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 12, Line 12
12) P15 L23: Engendered is a strange word to use, ..gave rise to…, would be better.
Reply:
We sincerely appreciate the suggestion. The word “engendered” has been replaced with
“gave rise to” in the revised manuscript.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 15, Line 24
13) P16 L24-25: Can the authors add some discussion about the relevance of the phantom
in terms of mimicking dispersion due to viscosity, in the two types of plaque considered.
Although, commonly used, it is a limitation of using such a phantom I believe.
Reply:
Yes, we agreed with the Reviewer who totally understands the limitation of using gelatin
phantom for elastography study. Thanks for the suggestion, we have added the discussion
regarding to the mimicking dispersion of the inclusions in Figure 8.
In the phantom experiments in Figure 8, the artifacts were found in both wave-amplitude
and wave-velocity images, the reason may be attributed to a viscous response from the gelatin
gels. Viscosity can be considered as an additional and cumulative low-pass filtering effect and
makes the temporal shape of displacement more boarder, which distorts the image of the shear
wave propagation [59, 60]. Several groups further focused on the viscous issues: based on the
viscoelastic inclusion simulation and experiment, Orescanin et al. indicated that the degree of
distortion in elastographic image increases with viscosity [59]; the results from Bercoff et al.
also demonstrated that the inference of viscosity largely affects the shear wave shape in far-
field area than in near-field area [60]. These may be the reasons to induce artifacts and lead the
inclusion to present as a dispersive shape in the wave images in Figure 8. Therefore, although
the 3%-gelatin phantom has similar elastic properties with lipid-pool plaque. The viscous
response is different to the plaques.
References
59. Bercoff, J., Tanter, M., Muller, M., Fink, M. 2004 The role of viscosity in the impulse diffraction field of
elastic waves induced by the acoustic radiation force. IEEE Trans. Ultrason. Ferroelectr. Freq. Control. 51,
1523-1536. (doi: 10.1109/TUFFC.2011.1816)
60. Orescanin, M., Wang, Y., Insana, M. F. 2011 3-D FDTD simulation of shear waves for evaluation of
complex modulus imaging. IEEE Trans. Ultrason. Ferroelectr. Freq. Control. 58, (doi:
10.1109/TUFFC.2011.1816)
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 17, Line 6-17
For Reviewer 2
General comments
This work is significant and this manuscript is well written. Only minor revisions are needed
as the comments in the following.
Reply:
Thank you for carefully reviewing our manuscript. Your suggestions and comments were
highly valuable. We have revised the manuscript in accordance with the Reviewer suggestions.
Specific comments
1) Page 4, line 3-5: The sequence of sentences needs to be checked, having editing error.
Reply:
We are sorry for the mistakes. The sentence has been modified as follows “However, none
of these methods provides information about the mechanical properties of a plaque, such as
IVUS with photoacoustic imaging [12], IVUS with optical coherence tomography [13], and
IVUS with near-infrared [14].”
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 4, Line 3-5
2) Page 7, line 3: PbTiO3 (PMN-PT) is wrong.
Reply:
It is our negligence. The material should be Pb(Mg1/3Nb2/3)O3-PbTiO3 (PMN-PT), which
has been modified in the revised manuscript.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 7, Line 4
3) Page 7, line 6: a=> delete.
Reply:
We are sorry for the grammar error. The word “a” has been removed in the revised
manuscript.
4) Page 10, line 8: 5°C shows wrong character.
Reply:
It is our negligence. The symbol “°C” has been corrected in the revised manuscript.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 10, Line 9
5) Page 11, line 15: mean ± standard values=> mean ± standard deviation.
Reply:
We are sorry for the wrong usage. The word “deviation” has been used in the revised
manuscript.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 11, Line 16
6) Page 24, line 24: Year=> 2014.
Reply:
Sorry for the mistakes. The reference has been corrected.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 24, Line 24
7) Page 29, line 21-22: (c)=> (d); (d)=> (e); (e)=> (f).
Reply:
It is our negligence. The caption of figure 8 has been corrected.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 30, Line 21-22
8) Page 37, line 28-29: (c)=> (d); (d)=> (e); (e)=> (f).
Reply:
Thanks for the kindly reminder. The caption of figure 8 has been corrected.
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 74, Line 28-29
9) references: format of references not consistent. e.g. ref. 36
Reply:
Thanks for the carefully reviewing. The format of reference 36 has been corrected in the
revised manuscript as follows:
“36. Czernuszewicz, T. J., Gallippi, C. M., Zhuochen, W., Jianguo, M., Xiaoning, J. 2014
Acoustic radiation force (ARF) generation with a novel dual-frequency intravascular
transducer. 2014 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium (IUS); 2014 3-6 Sept., p.
2284-2287. (doi: 10.1109/ULTSYM.2014.0569)”
The changes of revised contexts are described as follows.
1) Page 25, Line 24 to Page 26, Line 2
Society Open
