Keep up or drown: adjustment of western Pacific coral reefs
to sea-level rise in the 21st century
R. van Woesik, Y. Golbuu and G. Roff
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150181.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150181
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 April 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 15 June 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 26 June 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150181.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Unclear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In this paper, the authors tried to estimate the recent sea-level changes using the data of
microatolls of massive Porites species. The content is concise and interesting, but I have some
concerns on the present manuscript.
First, I am not sure whether microatolls could be simply used for the estimation of sea-level
changes because the formation of microatolls would be effected by other factors such as
predation by sea-urchin, the degree of waves, etc. And there are geographic variations on the
vertical extension of microatolls among sites (Fig.4b). I recommend the authors add some
explanations on this variation.
The authors are assuming a decline in growth for every 1C in temperature, but the explanation is
unclear (when do the decrease start?). It seems that the authors are intending to explain the
uncertainty of this assumption in p.7, line 44-50, additional information may help the
understanding for the readers.
I feel that the descriptions of Results include those of Discussion. I recommend the authors move
some descriptions in Results into Discussion.
Concerning the measurements of microatolls, it would be informative to show more magnified
pictures because Fig.4a is unclear.
Some studies are reporting the decrease of calcification for massive Porites by ocean acidification.
This point is not directly related to the content of this paper, but the discussion concerning ocean
acidification may be informative to consider coral responses in the future ocean (e.g. Yara et al.
2012).
Yara, Y., Vogt, M., Fujii, M., Yamano, H., Hauri, C., Steinacher, M., ... & Yamanaka, Y. (2012).
Ocean acidification limits temperature-induced poleward expansion of coral habitats around
Japan. Biogeosciences, 9(12), 4955-4968.
Minor comments:
p.4, line 17-: "increasing pH" -> "decreasing pH"
p.6, line 15-: reference [21] may be incorrect.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Janice Lough)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
3
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
General comments:
This is a novel and interesting study that combines responses of massive coral growth to
warming sea surface temperatures and higher sea levels to project likely growth rates with four
RCP scenarios. The results are based on analyses of multiple Porites colonies and micro-atolls at
Palau. A key element of their projections is that linear extension rates will decline at
temperatures above 28.9C (Figure S1). This is based on various published growth rates though
the switch to declining growth rates with higher temperatures appears to be largely driven by
measurements from Indonesian corals, some of which are at heavily polluted sites. I think that
the potential caveats of this growth:SST relationship need to be discussed further in the
manuscript. It should also be noted that this is a “spatial” rather than a “temporal” relationship
between average growth rates and average SSTs and again I think this needs further discussion as
to its applicability in projecting temporal changes in the future. It would also be informative to
know how SSTs have been warming in and around Palau. The authors link recent increases in
extension rates with the high rates of sea level rise around Palau giving the micro-atolls more
growth space but they do not clearly indicate whether growth increases may well have
responded to warming SSTs in the region. Observed rates of SST warming need to be included.
The paper is generally well written and clear. Overall, I think this is a scientifically sound
publication but that the strength of the conclusions would benefit from greater analysis and
discussion of recent changes in SST and further discussion of the authors’ assumptions about
Porites growth responses to warming SSTs.
Specific comments:
Page 3, line 23: “have been eroded”
Page 3, line 37: “carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gas levels”
Page 5, line 33: “microatolls”
Page 6, line 15: Should this reference by #22 not #21?
Page 6, line 44: Suggest that Church et al (2013) Sea Level Change. In: Climate Change 2013: The
Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change [Stocker, T.F., D. Qin, G.-K. Plattner, M. Tignor, S.K.
Allen, J. Boschung, A. Nauels, Y. Xia, V. Bex and P.M. Midgley (eds.)]. Cambridge University
Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom and New York, NY, USA is also a relevant reference for
observed and projected regional changes in rates of sea-level rise.
Page 7, line 3: “All 570 intertidal Porites microatolls…..”
Page 7, line 13: “Vertical extension of the intertidal microatoll rims….”
Page 7, line 48: “temperatures. Under RCP 6.0”
Page 8, lines 44-46: “Although it is clear………increases in ocean temperature” – can the authors
provide additional evidence/references to support this statement.
Page 8, line 3: “Under RCP8.5 pathway…”
Page 8, lines 27-32: The Lough and Barnes (2000) finding of 3.1 mm increase in Porites linear
extension per 1oC rise in SST is based on average SST and average growth rates, i.e. this is a
spatial rather than a temporal relationship – this should be clarified in the text.
Page 8, lines 42-51: Other relevant studies for this section are Tanzil et al (2013 Global Change
Biology 19, 3011-3023) and Cooper et al (2012 ref # 30) in relation to thermal optima for Porites
and that growth rates appear to be responding to rates of SST warming.
4
Page 9, lines 3-8: Do the authors find any evidence of growth responses to these thermal stress
events (e.g. Cantin & Lough 2014 PLosONE, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0088720)?
Janice Lough
Australian Institute of Marine Science
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150181)
11-Jun-2015
Dear Dr van Woesik,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Keep up or drown: adjustment of western Pacific
coral reefs to sea-level rise in the 21st century") has now received comments from reviewers. We
would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 04-Jul-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
5
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150181)
See Appendix A.
6
label_version_2
RSOS-150181.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have revised their manuscript according to the reviewers' comments adequetly. I feel
that the paper is acceptable for Royal Society Open Science.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Janice Lough)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The authors have adequately addressed my concerns with the original version of the manuscript.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150181.R1)
26-Jun-2015
Dear Dr van Woesik,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Keep up or drown: adjustment of
western Pacific coral reefs to sea-level rise in the 21st century" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 days. Please contact the
editorial office (emilie.aime@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are likely to be away from e-
mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule, if
comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
pendix A
ar Dr. Emilie Aime,
ior Publishing Editor
yal Society Open Science
e 15, 2015
nk you for the two useful reviews of our manuscript “Keep up or drown: adjustment of
tern Pacific coral reefs to sea-level rise in the 21st century” (ID RSOS-150181). We have
ressed all of the comments below, and revised the manuscript accordingly. Each comment
suggestion is enumerated (in italics, Calibri, 10 point font), followed by our response (in
es, 12 point font). Thank you for the opportunity to submit a revised manuscript to Royal
iety Open Science.
ewer: 1
his is a novel and interesting study that combines responses of massive coral growth to warming sea surface
peratures and higher sea levels to project likely growth rates with four RCP scenarios. The results are based on
lyses of multiple Porites colonies and micro-atolls at Palau. A key element of their projections is that linear
nsion rates will decline at temperatures above 28.9C (Figure S1). This is based on various published growth
s though the switch to declining growth rates with higher temperatures appears to be largely driven by
surements from Indonesian corals, some of which are at heavily polluted sites. I think that the potential
ats of this growth:SST relationship need to be discussed further in the manuscript.
ponse: Thank you for the comment. We have added a caveat into the revised text on the
onesian corals and the potential of pollution. We also note in the revised text that the
tively slow growth in Palau (this study) is not a function of local pollution, nor are the clear
ional patterns in Southeast Asia (by Tanzil et al 2013 Global Change Biology 19: 3011-3012)
gn of local pollution, but rather, as Tanzil et al argued, the reductions in growth and
cification are a function of high-water temperatures. Recent reductions in massive Porites
wth and calcification were shown by Lough and Cantin (2014). The text has been revised to
ect these caveats and relationships.
should also be noted that this is a “spatial” rather than a “temporal” relationship between average growth
s and average SSTs and again I think this needs further discussion as to its applicability in projecting temporal
nges in the future.
ponse: We agree. We have added new text into the revised manuscript on the difference
ween a space-for-time approach and an actual long-term temporal study. We also note that
ce-for-time approaches are useful, because it is not often convenient to wait for decades
ore results, and the knowledge that stems from the results, are applied to future predictions.
re are also potential problems with such space-for-time studies, which are highlighted in the
ised text, when linearly extrapolating spatial difference to temporal predictions, because local
ptations are not considered, and therefore the responses may differ. The new text now reads:
1
previous space-for-time study on the Great Barrier Reef showed that increases in average sea
face temperatures would increase the average annual extension rates of Porites by 3.1 mm for
h 1oC rise in temperature [27]. Such space-for-time approaches are useful but do not consider
al adaptations. Bearing in mind these caveats …”
thermore, we added a paragraph to the online supplementary document that is dedicated to
problem.
would also be informative to know how SSTs have been warming in and around Palau. The authors link recent
eases in extension rates with the high rates of sea level rise around Palau giving the micro-atolls more growth
e but they do not clearly indicate whether growth increases may well have responded to warming SSTs in the
on. Observed rates of SST warming need to be included.
ponse: This was a good suggestion. We have included the rates of sea surface temperature in
appendix and the R code that went into these calculations. The rates of temperature have
n steadily increasing since 1870 (online supplementary document) in Palau at a rate of
03oC per year. The vertical expansion of the microatolls in Palau started around 2006, and
ce that time the water temperatures have risen about 0.024oC (2006 to 2014), although the
peratures have been steadily increasing since the late 1800s, and have increased about 0.5oC
ce 1870. The recent vertical expansion of massive Porites, which we consistently recorded
oss all sites, is directly reflected in sea-level rise (~160 mm) around that same timeframe
gure 3), rather than a breaching of a temperature threshold to increase coral-growth rates. In
, we are encouraged that the Porites colonies did expand despite the rising temperatures, and
pite bleaching events. These comments are reflected in the revised text.
cific comments:
age 3, line 23: “have been eroded”
ponse: We agree. The word “been” was inserted into the revised text.
age 3, line 37: “carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gas levels”
ponse: We agree. We inserted “and other greenhouse gases” into the sentence, which is
ropriate.
age 5, line 33: “microatolls”
ponse: Agree. We changed microatoll to microatolls.
2
age 6, line 15: Should this reference by #22 not #21?
ponse: Thank you. We corrected the reference.
age 6, line 44: Suggest that Church et al (2013) Sea Level Change. In: Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science
s. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
nge [Stocker, T.F., D. Qin, G.-K. Plattner, M. Tignor, S.K. Allen, J. Boschung, A. Nauels, Y. Xia, V. Bex and P.M.
gley (eds.)]. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom and New York, NY, USA is also a relevant
rence for observed and projected regional changes in rates of sea-level rise.
ponse: We agree, and have added the reference.
age 7, line 3: “All 570 intertidal Porites microatolls…..”
ponse: We inserted the suggested word “intertidal”.
Page 7, line 13: “Vertical extension of the intertidal microatoll rims….”
ponse: The sentence was changed as suggested by the reviewer.
Page 7, line 48: “temperatures. Under RCP 6.0”
ponse: Thank you for noticing. We changed the sentence to remove “The”.
Page 8, lines 44-46: “Although it is clear………increases in ocean temperature” – can the authors provide
itional evidence/references to support this statement.
ponse: We have provided additional references.
Page 8, line 3: “Under RCP8.5 pathway…”
ponse: We corrected RCP8 to RCP 8.5.
Page 8, lines 27-32: The Lough and Barnes (2000) finding of 3.1 mm increase in Porites linear extension per 1oC
in SST is based on average SST and average growth rates, i.e. this is a spatial rather than a temporal
tionship – this should be clarified in the text.
ponse: We clarified the text to indicate that the Lough and Barnes study was a spatial, rather
n a temporal study.
3
Page 8, lines 42-51: Other relevant studies for this section are Tanzil et al (2013 Global Change Biology 19,
1-3023) and Cooper et al (2012 ref # 30) in relation to thermal optima for Porites and that growth rates appear
e responding to rates of SST warming.
ponse: We have included the two suggested references into this section of the text.
Page 9, lines 3-8: Do the authors find any evidence of growth responses to these thermal stress events (e.g.
tin & Lough 2014 PLosONE, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0088720)?
ponse: We have not measured any obvious changes in growth responses through the 2010
aching event; but then again we did not study growth-band density in the present study. We
erstand that Anne Cohen’s lab is actively working on assessing high-density growth bands,
the 1998 and 2010 thermal stress events, in Palau. However, it is not appropriate for us to
cuss their hard-earned results, nor to convey their findings before it is published.
iewer: 2
In this paper, the authors tried to estimate the recent sea-level changes using the data of microatolls of massive
tes species. The content is concise and interesting, but I have some concerns on the present manuscript. First, I
not sure whether microatolls could be simply used for the estimation of sea-level changes because the
ation of microatolls would be effected by other factors such as predation by sea-urchin, the degree of waves,
ponse: We agree; microatoll growth “would” be affected by other factors such as predation
waves, however, predation and waves were also present since the colony margins started
anding in 2006 in Palau. We did however, add several caveats in regards to using microatolls
measure sea-level change, particularly relevant is the point that we inserted in regards to sea-
el rise, and when the reef crest no longer protects the Porites colonies from typhoon waves in
more sheltered lagoon. Thank you for pointing out some of the vicissitudes of microatoll
wth; we had considered these issues and welcome the comment and the opportunity to discuss
issue in the revised text.
And there are geographic variations on the vertical extension of microatolls among sites (Fig.4b). I recommend
authors add some explanations on this variation.
ponse: Thank you for the opportunity to discuss the geographic differences in microatoll
wth. The sites vary considerably in exposure and average flow rates; for example the highest
wth rates were recorded at Ngerdis, which was consistently well flushed, whereas Risong, is a
m, sheltered bay leeward of a channel showed lowest growth rates. We suspect that flow rates,
therefore differential rates of mass transfer considerably influence Porites growth rates,
er similar irradiance and temperature regimes. We have added some new text in the revised
nuscript to this effect.
The authors are assuming a decline in growth for every 1C in temperature, but the explanation is unclear (when
he decrease start?). It seems that the authors are intending to explain the uncertainty of this assumption in p.7,
4
44-50, additional information may help the understanding for the readers.
ponse: We agree that our original explanation was unclear. We have rewritten the paragraph
larify our reasoning, added several references, and point to the revised online supplementary
ument for further information.
I feel that the descriptions of Results include those of Discussion. I recommend the authors move some
riptions in Results into Discussion.
ponse: We have gone through the Results section. There are three paragraphs in the Results.
first paragraph outlines the results of the tidal-height analysis, the second paragraph outlines
coral growth records, and the third paragraph outlines the results of the model. We suspect
reviewer was referring to the third paragraph, although the reviewers comment was vague
ove some descriptions in Results into the Discussion”. Therefore, we moved a section (Page
ines 33 to 49) that mentioned the model into the Discussion, and expanded that section to
ress comments 15 and 19.
oncerning the measurements of microatolls, it would be informative to show more magnified pictures because
4a is unclear.
ponse: We apologize for the unclear resolution of Figure 4a in the reviewers version of the
nuscript; we do note however that the original images, which were submitted online had
remely high resolution, including Figure 4 (17MB Tiff format). Therefore, we suspect that
ure 4 will be legible in published format.
Some studies are reporting the decrease of calcification for massive Porites by ocean acidification. This point is
directly related to the content of this paper, but the discussion concerning ocean acidification may be
rmative to consider coral responses in the future ocean (e.g. Yara et al. 2012). Yara, Y., Vogt, M., Fujii, M.,
ano, H., Hauri, C., Steinacher, M., ... & Yamanaka, Y. (2012). Ocean acidification limits temperature-induced
ward expansion of coral habitats around Japan. Biogeosciences, 9(12), 4955-4968.
ponse: Thank you for the reference. There is indeed an increasing literature on the adverse
cts of ocean acidification on coral reefs. We do in fact cite Shamberger et al. 2014 [15] and
kley et al 2015 [ ], whom measured pH and other ocean-chemistry parameters in Palau,
wing little consequential influence on coral- community structure and on calcification rates,
ough Barkley et al. (2015) did emphasize increases in bioerosion under lower pH in Palau
have added some ocean acidification context to the revised manuscript.
or comments:
p.4, line 17-: "increasing pH" -> "decreasing pH"
ponse: We have corrected this error. Thank you for pointing this out to us.
p.6, line 15-: reference [21] may be incorrect.
5
ponse: We have corrected the reference, which was also pointed out by Reviewer 1
mment 7).
ain, we thank both reviewers for taking the time to read our manuscript, and to make
structive suggestions that greatly improved the final product.
urs sincerely
bert van Woesik, George Roff, and Yimnang Golbuu
6
Society Open
