Sweepstake evolution revealed by population-genetic
analysis of copy-number alterations in single genomes of
breast cancer
Mamoru Kato, Daniel A. Vasco, Ryuichi Sugino, Daichi Narushima and Alexander Krasnitz
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171060.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171060
Review timeline
Original submission: 4 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 31 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 31 August 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171060.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors have carefully revised the manuscript to incorporate changes in response to all
reviewer comments. They have put serious effort into improving the manuscript and its
presentation.
Minor comments follow.
p4. "Although this distance shows some relatedness between cells, it is not a well-confirmed
population-genetic metric that reflects correct genealogical relationships."
This is a little ambiguous. Do you mean
"Although this distance shows some relatedness between cells, it is a population-genetic metric
that may reflect correct genealogical relationships but is not well confirmed"?
or do you mean
"Although this distance shows some relatedness between cells, it is not a population-genetic
metric that correctly reflects genealogical relationships."?
That is, what does the "not" refer to?
And again on a similar note: "...for which the distances are not validated as right metrics in
population genetics" is a little awkward. Do you mean something like "...for which the distances
have not been validated as appropriate metrics for inference using copy numbers"?
p5. "MMC modelling allows multiple lineages to be merged simultaneously to include non-
neutral evolutionary processes, based on a probability distribution for the number of merged
lineages, whereas the Kingman coalescent only allows the merger of 2 lineages, following neutral
evolutionary processes."
I thought the point of the MMC model was to allow some cells to have a large offspring number
so that the variance in offspring number is very high (sweepstake evolution). This doesn't require
evolution to be non-neutral does it?
p8. Perhaps "probability of multiple mergers" is better than "likelihood of multiple mergers"
p9. Line 4. Suggest: The parameter $\alpha$ takes non-negative values, and a value of zero
represents a constant population size.
p10. I appreciate the effort that has gone into the work described in new text on page 10. The
logical flow between the first two paragraphs is a little odd because the first paragraph addresses
posterior model probabilities but the second paragraph starts by saying that approach is
inadequate. The logic of the approach should be clarified. Are all three approaches accessing the
same information or are they "independent"? Is the posterior predictive check the approach we
should rely on the most?
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Paul Marjoram)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors have been extremely conscientious with regard to addressing the comments in the
previous round of reviews. My only remaining concern is that, if access to software is indeed a
condition of publication, I do not recall reading instructions as to how that can be obtained.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171060)
21-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Kato
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171060 entitled
"Sweepstake evolution revealed by population-genetic analysis of copy-number alterations in
single genomes of breast cancer" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
4
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171060
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 30-Aug-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
5
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Steve Brown
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have carefully revised the manuscript to incorporate changes in response to all
reviewer comments. They have put serious effort into improving the manuscript and its
presentation.
6
Minor comments follow.
p4. "Although this distance shows some relatedness between cells, it is not a well-confirmed
population-genetic metric that reflects correct genealogical relationships."
This is a little ambiguous. Do you mean
"Although this distance shows some relatedness between cells, it is a population-genetic metric
that may reflect correct genealogical relationships but is not well confirmed"?
or do you mean
"Although this distance shows some relatedness between cells, it is not a population-genetic
metric that correctly reflects genealogical relationships."?
That is, what does the "not" refer to?
And again on a similar note: "...for which the distances are not validated as right metrics in
population genetics" is a little awkward. Do you mean something like "...for which the distances
have not been validated as appropriate metrics for inference using copy numbers"?
p5. "MMC modelling allows multiple lineages to be merged simultaneously to include non-
neutral evolutionary processes, based on a probability distribution for the number of merged
lineages, whereas the Kingman coalescent only allows the merger of 2 lineages, following neutral
evolutionary processes."
I thought the point of the MMC model was to allow some cells to have a large offspring number
so that the variance in offspring number is very high (sweepstake evolution). This doesn't require
evolution to be non-neutral does it?
p8. Perhaps "probability of multiple mergers" is better than "likelihood of multiple mergers"
p9. Line 4. Suggest: The parameter $\alpha$ takes non-negative values, and a value of zero
represents a constant population size.
p10. I appreciate the effort that has gone into the work described in new text on page 10. The
logical flow between the first two paragraphs is a little odd because the first paragraph addresses
posterior model probabilities but the second paragraph starts by saying that approach is
inadequate. The logic of the approach should be clarified. Are all three approaches accessing the
same information or are they "independent"? Is the posterior predictive check the approach we
should rely on the most?
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have been extremely conscientious with regard to addressing the comments in the
previous round of reviews. My only remaining concern is that, if access to software is indeed a
condition of publication, I do not recall reading instructions as to how that can be obtained.
7
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171060)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171060.R1)
31-Aug-2017
Dear Dr Kato,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Sweepstake evolution revealed by
population-genetic analysis of copy-number alterations in single genomes of breast cancer" is
now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
31 August 2017
Professor Steve Brown, Ph.D.
Royal Society Open Science
Subject Editor
6-9 Carlton House Terrace
London SW1Y 5AG
United Kingdom
Dear Dr. Brown:
We are glad to hear that our manuscript is acceptable under minor revision, which is
entitled “Sweepstake evolution revealed by population-genetic analysis of
copy-number alterations in single genomes of breast cancer” by Kato et al.,
manuscript ID: RSOS-171060.
We have provided our point-by-point responses to the reviewers’ comments below.
Modifications to the revised manuscript are indicated in red letters. We used EndNote to
insert citations in the manuscript (now the Field Update by Word is locked by Cntrl +
F11). We would greatly appreciate if you could insert the middle name to the second
author, as Daniel A. Vasco, which I forgot to insert in the Author Centre and could not
modify at this time (though we wrote this middle name in the title page of the
manuscript).
We appreciate your consideration of the revised manuscript for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
Yours respectfully,
Mamoru Kato, PhD
Head
Department of Bioinformatics
National Cancer Center Research Institute
5-1-1 Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0045, Japan
Tel: +81-3-3542-2511
E-mail: mamkato@ncc.go.jp
1
Responses to Reviewer 1
We are glad to hear that the reviewer gave a positive evaluation of our revisions. We
have responded to the minor comments below.
1. p4. The reviewer pointed out an ambiguity in our wording: "Although this
distance shows some relatedness between cells, it is not a well-confirmed
population-genetic metric that reflects correct genealogical relationships." The
reviewer wondered which the “not” refers to.
Response: We appreciate the reviewer for notifying us this ambiguous expression.
The first expression the reviewer suggested is what we intended to say. We changed
the sentence into the suggested expression at line 12 on page 4 of the manuscript.
The same ambiguity was found in "...for which the distances are not validated
as right metrics in population genetics"
Response: We change the sentence into the expression suggested by the reviewer
with a little modification (we added “phylogenetic-tree” to “inference”) for
clarification at line 16 on page 4.
2. p5. "MMC modelling allows multiple lineages to be merged simultaneously to
include non-neutral evolutionary processes, based on a probability distribution
for the number of merged lineages, whereas the Kingman coalescent only
allows the merger of 2 lineages, following neutral evolutionary processes." I
thought the point of the MMC model was to allow some cells to have a large
offspring number so that the variance in offspring number is very high
(sweepstake evolution). This doesn't require evolution to be non-neutral does
it?
Response: We are sorry for our unclear wording. As the reviewer pointed out,
MMC does NOT ALWAYS indicate non-neutral evolution. That is why we wrote,
“INCLUDE non-neutral evolutionary processes” (I thought “INCLUDE” implies
that there may be other possibilities – neutral evolution).
2
However, we have notice that this wording is subtle; so, we removed the phrases
with “neutral/non-neutral” at line 5 on page 5.
3. p8. Perhaps "probability of multiple mergers" is better than "likelihood of
multiple mergers"
Response: We followed this suggestion at line 19 on page 8.
4. p9. Line 4. Suggest: The parameter $¥alpha$ takes non-negative values, and a
value of zero represents a constant population size.
Response: We followed this suggestion at line 4 on page 9.
5. p10. I appreciate the effort that has gone into the work described in new text
on page 10. The logical flow between the first two paragraphs is a little odd
because the first paragraph addresses posterior model probabilities but the
second paragraph starts by saying that approach is inadequate. The logic of
the approach should be clarified. Are all three approaches accessing the same
information or are they "independent"? Is the posterior predictive check the
approach we should rely on the most?
Response: We apologize for the odd usage of the transition words. All the three
approaches look at the same thing from different angles (criteria), where A may be
best from one angle but B may be best from another angle. However, in our
analyses, MMC was always best, though the second and third best changed
according to different angles.
Following the reviewer’s comment, we changed the wording at line 11 page 10:
(Old)
“Because it may be insufficient to just look at models’ posterior probabilities for
model comparison in ABC [28], we further performed additional analyses as
described below.”
(New)
3
“In addition, we performed two analyses that complement the analysis of models’
posterior probabilities [28].”
We also changed the concluding sentence of the three analyses for a better
clarification at line 4 on page 11:
(Old)
“Among all the model selection results, the MMC model was concluded to be the
best model.”
(New)
“In summary, the MMC model was always the best model across all the three
analyses of model selection.”
4
Responses to Reviewer 2
We are glad that the reviewer was satisfied with our revisions. The reviewer had only
one concern below.
1. My only remaining concern is that, if access to software is indeed a condition
of publication, I do not recall reading instructions as to how that can be
obtained.
Response: We thank the reviewer for this suggestion. We thought that it was not so
difficult to code the software, once readers read the method part. Nevertheless, for
readers’ convenience, we have made it available in Dryad, as written at line 3 on
page 21, Data Accessibility.
5
Society Open
