Modelling human mobility patterns using photographic data
shared online
Daniele Barchiesi, Tobias Preis, Steven Bishop and Helen Susannah Moat
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150046.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150046
Review timeline
Original submission: 28 January 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 31 May 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 July 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150046.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The manuscript analyses a dataset of 16,000 users who uploaded their photos on Flickr and infers
the probability of finding people in geographical locations and their movement patterns. The
results compare well with official figures. The paper is clear and well written, and it looks free
from technical faults. I think it is suitable for publication.
I have two minor comments authors may want to consider and maybe comment upon in the
paper.
1) Would it be possible to identify seasonal patterns in the mobility of individuals?
2) When the authors write “In general, fluxes between two cities appear to be positively
correlated to the cities’ sizes and negatively correlated to their mutual distance.” they may want
to mention the “gravity law” model for human mobility between cities. (e.g., Erlander S, Stewart
NF (1990) The Gravity Model in Transportation Analysis (VSP, Utrecht)).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Stanislav Sobolevsky)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The presented paper is devoted to the study of human mobility through the dataset of geo-
localized Flickr transactions. First of all the general statistics for displacements in the dataset has
been found to be consistent with the well-known Levy flight theory of human mobility. Further
authors present an interesting and valuable methodology of learning the underlying probabilities
of people’s transitions between different locations across the country. Also a comparison of the
obtain transition matrix between 20 major UK cities and the corresponding National Travel
Survey data is performed in order to validate that the extracted patterns correspond to reality.
Overall the paper presents a valuable contribution. Some parts of it in my opinion might still
benefit from further elaboration.
3
1. Paper claims that learned transition probabilities between cities and the survey data are
consistent, while this sounds perhaps a bit too strong given the methodology of comparison
performed, which could be still improved by presenting additional metrics or visualizations of
similarity between the two. Right now the paper basically mentions that in 92% of cases learned
transition probabilities are closer to the survey data than random matrix, which does not really
seem like a strong validation or smth one would not expect as long as Flickr data ever have smth
to do with the reality; especially as long as both matrixes share such basic properties as positive
correlation with the city size and negative correlation with the distance, one would already
expect smth like that. Perhaps a visualization of the correlation between two matrixes might help
better understanding how similar they actually are and how useful Flickr is in estimating human
mobility.
2. Considering displacements based on Flickr data seems to have one caveat related to the
fact that such data is typically temporally sparse. As long as the displacement is not performed
within the same day one would assume that many other places could have been visited in
between – two consecutive pictures might have been taken during two different trips, while
customer have returned home and performed many other activities in the meantime, including
undertaking other trips. Some discussion on this aspect might be helpful together with presenting
statistics on temporal frequency of the considered users photographic activity, filtering customers
by it and/or considering only displacements performed over the same day or within a certain
reasonable timeframe.
Also a few minor comments:
1. It seems like there is a typo in the last paragraph of page 6: “weighted by p(un) that
indicates the of observing a transition generated by user un”
2. A typo in the reference 12 - list of authors is repeated.
3. When discussing relevant prior work, authors might consider mentioning a recent pre-
print, where human mobility between most photographed cities across the world has been also
quantified through geo-localized Flickr transactions:
Paldino, Silvia, Iva Bojic, Stanislav Sobolevsky, Carlo Ratti, and Marta C. González. "Urban
Magnetism Through The Lens of Geo-tagged Photography." arXiv preprint arXiv:1503.05502
(2015)..
Worth mentioning that the results and in general the focus of that work are completely different
from those of the considered one and there is no intersection with the present paper on that level,
the only thing that papers have in common is the idea of measuring intercity human mobility
using Flickr, which has already been introduced in the mentioned pre-print.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150046)
23rd May 2015
Dear Dr Barchiesi
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150046 entitled
"Modelling human mobility patterns using photographic data shared online" has been accepted
for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to some minor revisions in accordance with
the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
4
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 04-Jun-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
5
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Matthew Allinson
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150046)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150046.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Stanislav Sobolevsky)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
6
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I believe all the comments from the previous review have been properly addressed and paper is
suitable for publication. One typo remaining: in the reference 13, duplication of the authors has
been removed, but the family names remain misspelled with extra "a" or "b" letters in the end. Of
course it does not affect the suitability of the paper for publication and does not require
additional round of revisions, perhaps could be corrected during the proofread phase.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150046.R1)
15th July 2015
Dear Dr Barchiesi,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Modelling human mobility patterns
using photographic data shared online" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Response to reviewers
May 31, 2015
1 Reviewer: 1
The presented paper is devoted to the study of human mobility through the
dataset of geo-localized Flickr transactions. First of all the general statistics for
displacements in the dataset has been found to be consistent with the well-known
Levy flight theory of human mobility. Further authors present an interesting
and valuable methodology of learning the underlying probabilities of people?s
transitions between different locations across the country. Also a comparison of
the obtain transition matrix between 20 major UK cities and the corresponding
National Travel Survey data is performed in order to validate that the extracted
patterns correspond to reality.
Overall the paper presents a valuable contribution. Some parts of it in my
opinion might still benefit from further elaboration.
• Paper claims that learned transition probabilities between cities and the
survey data are consistent, while this sounds perhaps a bit too strong given
the methodology of comparison performed, which could be still improved
by presenting additional metrics or visualizations of similarity between the
two. Right now the paper basically mentions that in 92% of cases learned
transition probabilities are closer to the survey data than random matrix,
which does not really seem like a strong validation or smth one would
not expect as long as Flickr data ever have smth to do with the reality;
especially as long as both matrixes share such basic properties as positive
correlation with the city size and negative correlation with the distance,
one would already expect smth like that. Perhaps a visualization of the
correlation between two matrixes might help better understanding how
similar they actually are and how useful Flickr is in estimating human
mobility.
We computed the percentile rank of the values in both matrices to enable
a comparison between NTS data expressed in terms of number of trips
between any two cities and the transition probabilities learned from our
model. Then, we displayed a scatter plot of the resulting data in Fig. S3.
The figure shows a moderate but significant correlation between the two
variables, and reflects the Kendall’s tau test reported in the manuscript.
Although we recognise that this evidence is not very strong, we also argue
at the end of Section 2 that limitations in the NTS data, and differences
in methodology linked to the fact that main UK cities only loosely map
to unitary authority boundaries, mean that a rigorous comparison between
the two datasets is outside the scope of the present work. In order to avoid
overstating the significance of this result, we rephrased ’consistent’ in the
abstract with the expression ’in general agreement’ that we used in our
conclusions, and that we feel is a more cautious statement.
• Considering displacements based on Flickr data seems to have one caveat
related to the fact that such data is typically temporally sparse. As long as
the displacement is not performed within the same day one would assume
that many other places could have been visited in between ? two con-
secutive pictures might have been taken during two different trips, while
customer have returned home and performed many other activities in the
meantime, including undertaking other trips. Some discussion on this as-
pect might be helpful together with presenting statistics on temporal fre-
quency of the considered users photographic activity, filtering customers
by it and/or considering only displacements performed over the same day
or within a certain reasonable timeframe.
We have computed the distribution of time elapsed between consecutive
photos, and reported it in Fig. S2. This distribution is heavy tailed, mean-
ing that most photos are taken only a few hours or a few days apart, but
some photos are taken as much as a few years apart. We have commented
on this limitation in the data collection section of the manuscript.
Also a few minor comments:
• It seems like there is a typo in the last paragraph of page 6: ?weighted by
p(un) that indicates the of observing a transition generated by user un?
We have corrected the typo
• A typo in the reference 12 - list of authors is repeated.
We have corrected the typo
• When discussing relevant prior work, authors might consider mention-
ing a recent pre-print, where human mobility between most photographed
cities across the world has been also quantified through geo-localized Flickr
transactions: Paldino, Silvia, Iva Bojic, Stanislav Sobolevsky, Carlo Ratti,
and Marta C. Gonzlez. ”Urban Magnetism Through The Lens of Geo-
tagged Photography.” arXiv preprint arXiv:1503.05502 (2015).. Worth
mentioning that the results and in general the focus of that work are
completely different from those of the considered one and there is no in-
tersection with the present paper on that level, the only thing that papers
have in common is the idea of measuring intercity human mobility using
Flickr, which has already been introduced in the mentioned pre-print.
We have mentioned the work in the introduction of the manuscript.
2 Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript analyses a dataset of 16,000 users who uploaded their photos
on Flickr and infers the probability of finding people in geographical locations
and their movement patterns. The results compare well with official figures.
The paper is clear and well written, and it looks free from technical faults. I
think it is suitable for publication.
I have two minor comments authors may want to consider and maybe com-
ment upon in the paper.
• Would it be possible to identify seasonal patterns in the mobility of indi-
viduals?
We have commented on possible extensions of our work in the conclusions.
Seasonal patterns may be discovered by aggregating movements by time
periods.
• When the authors write ”In general, fluxes between two cities appear to
be positively correlated to the cities’ sizes and negatively correlated to
their mutual distance.” they may want to mention the ’gravity law’ model
for human mobility between cities. (e.g., Erlander S, Stewart NF (1990)
The Gravity Model in Transportation Analysis (VSP, Utrecht)).
We have commented on this and added the reference as suggested.
Society Open
