Polygyny without wealth: popularity in gift games predicts
polygyny in BaYaka Pygmies
Nikhil Chaudhary, Gul Deniz Salali, James Thompson, Mark Dyble, Abigail Page, Daniel
Smith, Ruth Mace and Andrea Bamberg Migliano
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150054.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150054
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 January 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 12 March 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 7 April 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150054.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Colette Berbesque)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see attached file. (See Appendix A.)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Marcus Hamilton)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper is a test of the primary correlates of polygny in BaYaka pygmies. The authors find that
the primary correlates of polygny are related to male social capital, not male physical quality, as
might be predicted from sexual selection theory. The paper is straight forward, well-written and
of appropriate length for the material covered. The statistics seem to be justified given the data,
and the conclusions follow the results.
My one substantive comments relates to the discussion. Their findings are interesting as they
suggest polygyny in the BaYaka is related to a skewed distribution of male quality, but social
quality as opposed to physical quality. This suggests male-male social competition is a driver of a
skewed distribution in fitness, rather than physical competition. It would be interesting to have
some discussion of this and the role of sexual selection or what might be termed sexual social
selection. This then begs the question of causality: what causes polygny, skewed fitness, and
social inequality to occur in the BaYaka, and is it possible to untangle them? What is known of the
kombetis position? Might this be related to tight exchange partnerships with agricultural
populations?
And one quibbling point: if the the role of kombeti is appointed rather than inherited, this does
not violate the "egalitarian ideal".
I suggest publishing the paper after a little more discussion of the above points.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150054)
3rd March 2015
Dear Mr Chaudhary
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150054 entitled
"Polygyny without Wealth: Popularity in gift games predicts polygyny in BaYaka Pygmies" has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in
accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
4
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 13-Mar-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
label_version_2
RSOS-150054.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix B.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Marcus Hamilton)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The expanded discussion is very interesting and my other comments have been addressed. I'd
suggest publishing.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150054.R1)
6th April 2015
Dear Mr Chaudhary,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Polygyny without Wealth: Popularity
in gift games predicts polygyny in BaYaka Pygmies" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
6
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Ms Emilie Aime, Dr Matthew Allinson
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org, matthew.allinson@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The expanded discussion is very interesting and my other comments have been addressed. I'd
suggest publishing.
Appendix A
Review: Polygyny without Wealth: Popularity in gift games predicts polygyny in
BaYaka Pygmies
The study is interesting and well written. I would, however, suggest further
discussion of the proxies chosen to measure physical quality and social capital.
Additionally, the paper would be stronger if more ethnographic context were
given. One example of this is that more needs to be explored on variation in
BaYaka men’s roles as providers—it is not entirely clear that men provide
enough for polygyny to be a serious trade-off for women. Please see specific
comments below.
Page 3 lines 28-33. In a cross-cultural study of hunter-gatherer groups, Marlowe
(2005) found that where male contribution to the diet was higher, polygyny was
lower—suggesting the inverse of the relationship you suggest. More information
on whether (or how) BaYaka men substantially provision their wives would
really help support your argument.
Page 4, 31-56, Phenotypic quality might be a better term for this than physical
quality (I suggest referring to this and then say it is measured through the
dimension of ‘physical quality’ via grip strength).
Page 5, lines 9 & 10, Here is states that the measure of physical quality did not
appear to relate to polygyny. The current wording makes it sound definitive that
physical condition is always unimportant in establishing polygynous
relationships—it would be more accurate to say that the chosen measures or
proxies (grip strength and height) were not related to polygyny rather than
saying that physical quality is unimportant.
Page 5 lines 35-42. Marlowe (2005) reports the average percentage of men
polygynously married across all warm climate, non-equestrian foragers is 15.5%
(14% in all foragers overall). The point is still valid that the archetypal hunter-
gatherers that come to mind (such as the Ache or the !Kung that are mentioned)
are significantly lower than this. This means that this study is not of one society
with an unusually high degree of polygyny, rather a society that may better
typify hunter-gatherer polygyny rates than the common archetypal hunter-
gatherer examples (such as the Ache or the !Kung that you mention, which are
actually on the lower end of the spectrum).
Methods, page 6, lines 34-42
I have some concerns over the coding of past polygyny as being current and how
that might affect the reporting of polygyny ratios. Based on the text, it sounds as
though any man that has ever had two wives is counted permanently as
polygynous—this is not a synchronic snapshot of the level of polygyny in the
population (reported as 15%). This method must exaggerate the number of
polygynous marriages quite a lot. Please clarify whether this is how the reported
15% polygyny rate was calculated. If not, with this lifetime definition of
polygyny, what is the percentage of men that have been polygynously married
(ever)?
Page 6, lines 44-58, is there any reason to suspect that taller men are more
preferred among the BaYaka? Sear & Marlowe (2009) found this was not the
case among the Hadza, and Sear et al. (2004) found the same lack of height
preference in the Gambia. Finally, there is a recent, really excellent review paper
on human height by Stulp and Barrett (2014) that is worth considering before
interpreting the results on height (tallness) as an unambiguous indicator of
physical quality. It would greatly improve the paper if justifications for or at
least a discussion of the proxies for physical quality and social capital might were
set up a bit more in the introduction.
Pg 7 lines 2-19- Social capital—There are some logical leaps here that need to be
addressed. Social capital is not being measured for it’s own sake, but as a means
of getting polygyny off the ground—so, are there potential sex differences in the
social capital of individuals as rated by men versus women? After all, if most
women really prefer the same men (and give them honey sticks), this would
strengthen the argument far more than an overall measure of how everyone felt
about those men. Does this result on social capital varies by the sex of the honey
donator? If not, why? The logic needs to be explicitly laid out and, if possible,
tied into the ethnographic context.
Pg 9, lines 39-42. Caveat—I would suggest saying ‘our measures’ of physical
quality or social capital, to avoid overstating by saying physical quality does not
relate to polygyny.
Pg 10, line 8, Here would be a good place to discuss evidence that these
measures of quality (height in particular) are not unambiguous.
Pg 10, lines 32-35—I don’t know that I follow the interpretation of the Sear &
Marlowe (2009) paper on Hadza height preferences—that paper does not show
that physical quality is unimportant among the Hadza, only that tallness and
size-related aspects of physicality are not preferred. See Apicella (2014), which
finds upper body strength (an alternative measure of physical quality) predicts
reproductive success and hunting success among the Hadza….as measured by
upper arm measurements rather than grip strength. This illustrates difficulties
in particular measures of physical quality, which should be discussed and
considered when interpreting the data.
Pg. 11, lines 45-52—Here it is suggested that polygynous men can only ensure
adequate food for their families via social networks…this seems like a strange
conclusion given the report in this paper that women acquire half of the food. It
would help to have some clarification on how help given by husbands in non-
polygynous versus polygynous marriages is envisaged. Also, I might assume that
wives of polygynously married men might then also get offered more honey
sticks if this hypothesis about social capital is true. Do wives of polygynous men
have more social capital themselves?
Pg 12 lines 3-19, This looks as though these polygynous men are actually ‘big
men’. The text mentions power over communal resources on line 5, however,
this is in conflict with the BaYaka being represented as a society without
material wealth on line 24 of the same page. A bit more depth in the explanation
of these people and their leadership and material wealth (or communal
resources and why they aren’t equivalent to wealth) could help with this.
Figure 2—Sample sizes below the boxes ‘polygynous’ and ‘non-polygynous’
would be helpful.
Appendix B
Dear Editor and Reviewers
We are delighted with the provisional acceptance decision. We are also grateful for
the helpful comments from both reviewers, which we have tried to incorporate as
fully as possible. Please find direct responses to each of the reviewers’ comments
below, with corresponding modifications/additions to the original manuscript quoted
in red.
Kind Regards
Nikhil Chaudhary
Response to Reviewer 1
The study is interesting and well written. I would, however, suggest further
discussion of the proxies chosen to measure physical quality and social capital.
Additionally, the paper would be stronger if more ethnographic context were given.
One example of this is that more needs to be explored on variation in BaYaka men’s
roles as providers—it is not entirely clear that men provide enough for polygyny to
be a serious trade-off for women. Please see specific comments below.
We would like to thank the reviewer for the useful comments. We have now
incorporated discussions of our measures of physical quality and some ethnographic
information, providing a better context for the results. Please see the replies to the
comments below.
1. Page 3 lines 28-33. In a cross-cultural study of hunter-gatherer groups, Marlowe
(2005) found that where male contribution to the diet was higher, polygyny was
lower—suggesting the inverse of the relationship you suggest. More information
on whether (or how) BaYaka men substantially provision their wives would
really help support your argument.
The reviewer is right in pointing out that when male provisioning is high, polygyny
rates should be lower, especially in lower productivity environments. This should be
due to ecologically imposed monogamy. Thus, we expect polygyny rates to be low in
terrestrial hunter-gatherers, where males contribute more for provisioning. P3, lines
28-33 we are not making any comment on the relationship between male contribution
to subsistence and polygyny rates, we are simply highlighting the costs to a woman
of marrying an already married man are higher than having an extra-marital affair
with him. Even if his contribution is only 50% of the household production, women
would incur the cost that this 50% is divided across two (or more) households. Thus
polygynous marriage has a cost unless provisioning is covered 100% by the women.
We are implying that some of the costs of polygyny (independently of whether man
is responsible for 50 or 100% of the production) could be covered by social capital.
2. Page 4, 31-56, Phenotypic quality might be a better term for this than physical
quality (I suggest referring to this and then say it is measured through the
dimension of ‘physical quality’ via grip strength).
We agree that phenotypic quality would be a more appropriate term, we now use this
throughout the article, highlighting we are examining phenotypic quality measured
via physical attributes.
Page x, lines x-y: We investigate whether polygynous BaYaka men differ in quality
from their non-polygynous counterparts across two dimensions – phenotypic quality
measured by physical attributes of height and hand-grip strength…
3. Page 5, lines 9 & 10, Here is states that the measure of physical quality did not
appear to relate to polygyny. The current wording makes it sound definitive that
physical condition is always unimportant in establishing polygynous
relationships—it would be more accurate to say that the chosen measures or
proxies (grip strength and height) were not related to polygyny rather than saying
that physical quality is unimportant.
We now highlight that we find no effect in our measures of phenotypic quality.
Page x, lines x-y: and that social capital, but not our measures of phenotypic quality,
might have been an important mechanism by which some male hunter-gatherers
sustained polygynous marriages before the onset of agriculture and wealth
accumulation…
4. Page 5 lines 35-42. Marlowe (2005) reports the average percentage of men
polygynously married across all warm climate, non-equestrian foragers is 15.5%
(14% in all foragers overall). The point is still valid that the archetypal hunter-
gatherers that come to mind (such as the Ache or the !Kung that are mentioned)
are significantly lower than this. This means that this study is not of one society
with an unusually high degree of polygyny, rather a society that may better typify
hunter-gatherer polygyny rates than the common archetypal hunter- gatherer
examples (such as the Ache or the !Kung that you mention, which are actually on
the lower end of the spectrum).
We now highlight the point that BaYaka polygyny rates may better reflect foragers in
general than other commonly studied groups, and cite Marlowe 2005.
Page x, lines x-y: Such estimates are considerably higher than most well studied
foraging groups e.g. 4% in Ache; 6% in !Kung [6]; but likely more representative of
foraging societies on the whole, which have a mean male polygyny rate of ~14%
[25].
5. Methods, page 6, lines 34-42 I have some concerns over the coding of past
polygyny as being current and how that might affect the reporting of polygyny
ratios. Based on the text, it sounds as though any man that has ever had two
wives is counted permanently as polygynous—this is not a synchronic snapshot
of the level of polygyny in the population (reported as 15%). This method must
exaggerate the number of polygynous marriages quite a lot. Please clarify
whether this is how the reported 15% polygyny rate was calculated. If not, with
this lifetime definition of polygyny, what is the percentage of men that have been
polygynously married (ever)?
Indeed, this is a rate of lifetime polygyny (it does not include serial monogamy). Men
were counted as polygynous if they had more than one wife simultaneously at any
time in their lives. We had to use this measure because we do not have complete data
on terminated marriages and thus some of our men coded as polygynous may no
longer be so due to widowhood/divorce. We now clarify this, and discuss the
possibility that rates of polygyny might therefore be overestimated.
Page x, lines x-y: This is a rate of men who achieve polygyny in their lifetime, which
may overstate polygyny prevalence as compared to other ‘snapshot’ estimates which
calculate the proportion of men/women married polygynously at one specific point in
time. However, comparably high levels have been found in other BaYaka Pygmy
groups – e.g. Aka [24], using the snapshot method….
6. Page 6, lines 44-58, is there any reason to suspect that taller men are more
preferred among the BaYaka? Sear & Marlowe (2009) found this was not the
case among the Hadza, and Sear et al. (2004) found the same lack of height
preference in the Gambia. Finally, there is a recent, really excellent review paper
on human height by Stulp and Barrett (2014) that is worth considering before
interpreting the results on height (tallness) as an unambiguous indicator of
physical quality. It would greatly improve the paper if justifications for or at least
a discussion of the proxies for physical quality and social capital might were set
up a bit more in the introduction.
Although some research has found no preference for height in pre-industrial
societies, the evidence is mixed. For example, height is a significantly correlated with
number of marriages for men in Gambia (Sear 2006) and indeed for another African
Pygmy population (Becker 2012). We now refer to this justification for proxy choice
in the introduction, and then further justify our proxies and their possible importance
for male attractiveness throughout the discussion. We also thank the reviewer for the
recommendation of Stulp and Barrett 2014 review of height, this was very
informative.
Page x, lines x-y (introduction): Phenotypic quality may increase a man's mate value
as it reflects genetic quality, which will be inherited by his offspring, thus increasing
their viability in a strenuous environment with high mortality risk [20]. Previous
studies have mixed results, however researchers have found positive associations
between number of marriages (including serial marriages) and height in Baka
Pygmies from Cameroon [21], and strength in the Hadza [22]. Alternatively, in the
absence of material wealth, social capital may be the resource that enables certain
men to afford multiple families; anthropologists have highlighted the importance of
wide social networks to buffer risk associated with hunter-gatherer subsistence [23].
7. Pg 7 lines 2-19- Social capital—There are some logical leaps here that need to
be addressed. Social capital is not being measured for it’s own sake, but as a
means of getting polygyny off the ground—so, are there potential sex differences
in the social capital of individuals as rated by men versus women? After all, if
most women really prefer the same men (and give them honey sticks), this would
strengthen the argument far more than an overall measure of how everyone felt
about those men. Does this result on social capital varies by the sex of the honey
donator? If not, why? The logic needs to be explicitly laid out and, if possible,
tied into the ethnographic context.
In this article we do not explicitly investigate the mechanism by which social capital
may translate to polygyny. We speculate social capital may reflect a man’s prospect
of becoming kombeti, which may increase his mate value for reasons described in the
discussion.
Page x, lines x-y: This position of kombeti is appointed, thus attainting and
maintaining this status is relies on social capital, and not excessively exploiting it. In
our sample there are only two kombetis, both of whom are polygynous and had the
most social capital in their respective camps, providing some support for this
pathway…
Alternatively, we speculate that popular men may be more attractive marriage
partners/better equipped to support multiple wives, since they likely have a larger
network of food sharing partners.
Page x, lines x-y: Alternatively, in the absence of material wealth, social capital may
be the resource that enables certain men to afford multiple families; anthropologists
have highlighted the importance of wide social networks to buffer risk associated
with hunter-gatherer subsistence [23].
Page x, lines x-y: A meta-analysis of human and non-human primate food sharing
highlights that reciprocal transfers are more prevalent in the Central African Republic
BaYaka (Aka) than any other group included in the study [38]. Establishing sharing
relationships is likely to be crucial to securing a stable nutritional income for one's
family; hence, as shown in our results, we expect that social capital is likely to be a
central component of a BaYaka man's mate value - more so than in other human
societies.
Page x, lines x-y: Thus the wives of polygynous men may rely on their husband’s
large social network for provisioning and allocare when he is residing in another
camp with a different wife.
Neither the kombeti nor larger sharing network pathways imply that social capital
from one sex is more important for achieving polygyny. The kombeti position is
appointed, and given the gender egalitarian nature of the Mbendjele (Lewis 2002), is
likely to rely equally on social support from both sexes. In our second speculation,
there are not any assumptions regarding food sharing relationships with one sex
being more important than with the other for supporting a family. Therefore, again
we have no reason to suspect that social capital with one sex is more important.
We do not use the honey stick game to measure sexual selection; we do not think
individuals are choosing who to give honey to based on who they would like to
marry. Our game was not designed for this, as it included adult men and women of
all ages (already married, already grandparents and so on). If females prefer a
specific man and give them more honey sticks, and we had used this sex specific
experiment to measure attractiveness, then, our argument would have been circular.
We use the game to investigate social capital and thus include all adult age and sex
groups in the game. However, if we do split up our analysis by honey stick
nominations from each sex, there appears to be a trend towards polygynous men
having more nominations from both sexes; although this is only significant for
nominations from women. Note more women played the game than men (52 vs. 44),
which may explain the higher significance of the result for nominations from women;
our result for nominations from men is close to significance and likely to surpass the
p<0.05 with a slightly larger sample size. Using the same technique of one-way
randomisation tests with 9999 Monte-Carlo randomizations, we obtain the results in
the table below.
mean z-score mean z-score
(polygynous) (non-polygynous) Z p
Honey stick nominations from men 0.668 -0.076 -1.588 0.098
Honey stick nominations from women 0.963 -0.119 -2.348 0.018
8. Pg 9, lines 39-42. Caveat—I would suggest saying ‘our measures’ of physical
quality or social capital, to avoid overstating by saying physical quality does not
relate to polygyny.
We now highlight that it is our measures of phenotypic quality that are found to have
no effect.
Page x, lines x-y: and differences in our measures of social capital but not phenotypic
quality explain which men achieve polygyny.
9. Pg 10, line 8, Here would be a good place to discuss evidence that these
measures of quality (height in particular) are not unambiguous.
We now discuss the mixed nature of evidence of effects of physical attributes on
male attractiveness in hunter-gatherer societies, and the difficulties in
operationalising physicality; we thus encourage caution of over-generalisation of our
results.
Page x, lines x-y: Here we only examine two physical attributes, a recent study on the
Hadza with numerous measures found effects on reproductive success that differed in
direction and significance [22], highlighting the difficulty in operationalising
phenotypic quality with few variables. Thus one must be cautious when generalising
these results. Additionally, the short stature of Pygmy groups may be a by-product of
other positively selected life-history processes [35], and therefore individual variation
in height may not be reflective of differences in phenotypic quality in this population.
10. Pg 10, lines 32-35—I don’t know that I follow the interpretation of the Sear &
Marlowe (2009) paper on Hadza height preferences—that paper does not show
that physical quality is unimportant among the Hadza, only that tallness and size-
related aspects of physicality are not preferred. See Apicella (2014), which finds
upper body strength (an alternative measure of physical quality) predicts
reproductive success and hunting success among the Hadza....as measured by
upper arm measurements rather than grip strength. This illustrates difficulties in
particular measures of physical quality, which should be discussed and
considered when interpreting the data.
The revised manuscript no longer contains a reference to Sear & Marlowe 2009. We
discuss difficulties in operationalising physical quality, and cite Apicella’s study –
see quote above from point 9.
11. Pg. 11, lines 45-52—Here it is suggested that polygynous men can only ensure
adequate food for their families via social networks...this seems like a strange
conclusion given the report in this paper that women acquire half of the food. It
would help to have some clarification on how help given by husbands in non-
polygynous versus polygynous marriages is envisaged. Also, I might assume that
wives of polygynously married men might then also get offered more honey
sticks if this hypothesis about social capital is true. Do wives of polygynous men
have more social capital themselves?
Although women contribute roughly equal number of calories to men, polygyny still
represents a substantial trade-off for women. If we view provisioning as a
complimentary activity of parents in terms of producing a balanced diet, and
managing childcare and foraging effort, the trade-off faced by polygynously married
women becomes more apparent. Therefore, we may expect men which do marry
polygynously to have a larger support network which helps compensate for the
difficulties faced by one wife when they are residing with another. We are implying
that some of the costs of polygyny (independently of whether man is responsible for
50 or 100% of the production) could be covered by social capital. We now include a
more detailed discussion of this trade-off and BaYaka males’ role.
Page x, lines x-y: When a polygynous man is staying in another camp with a different
wife, his foraging contribution is completely absent. Thus unless female production
covers 100% of provisioning, women incur a cost by marrying polygynously.
Moreover, in this group of BaYaka only men hunt, and the protein and fat content of
meat they provide are necessary dietary compliments to female gathering.
Additionally, fathers in BaYaka groups have been found to provide more direct care
than any other society in the world [34]. It is this paternal care that facilitates female
production, freeing up mothers to invest time in foraging. Thus a polygynously
married woman, in the absence of her husband, is also likely to encounter more
difficulties balancing the trade-off between direct care and foraging. Thus the wives
of polygynous men may rely on their husband’s large social network for provisioning
and allocare when he is residing in another camp with a different wife.
Wives of polygynous men, whose husband was present in camp and participating in
the game, do not receive significantly more honey stick nominations (p=0.44). If it is
the polygynous men who have the larger social network, we expect these individuals,
not their wives, to be popular in the gift game. Instances of polygynously married
women being popular would perhaps be expected in cases where the husband is
absent, and thus his social network gives to his wife. However, we cannot identify
these individuals based on the process of our reproductive history interviews.
12. Pg 12 lines 3-19, This looks as though these polygynous men are actually ‘big
men’. The text mentions power over communal resources on line 5, however, this
is in conflict with the BaYaka being represented as a society without material
wealth on line 24 of the same page. A bit more depth in the explanation of these
people and their leadership and material wealth (or communal resources and why
they aren’t equivalent to wealth) could help with this.
Kombeti is an appointed position to an elder, who holds respect and social support.
Kombetis can have substantial influence on group decisions, exercised in subtle ways,
but they hold no absolute authority and their position is subject to change. We now
explain this position more clearly and also highlight which resources we imply
kombetis may manipulate - gifts and money from outside groups, which do not
translate in to endowments and long-term material wealth.
Page x, lines x-y: BaYaka camps have a political position of kombeti, which can be
described as an appointed spokesperson who has influence, but not absolute
authority, over camp decisions regarding subsistence and movement, as well as
interactions with farmer and other non-BaYaka groups [24]. There are numerous
reasons why these individuals may have higher mate value to women. Although the
BaYaka generally do not accumulate material resources, they occasionally receive
resources such as money, clothes, machetes etc. from interaction with tourists,
researchers, farmers and government social programmes. Kombetis may manipulate
the distribution of these resources - in the past when we have given gifts for a camp,
the kombeti would direct their distribution and usually end up with a larger share (not
necessarily overtly); they also receive more goods such as cigarettes from farmers
[34]. It is noteworthy that this only occurs with resources that come from outside
groups; kombetis have no authority over resources produced by camp members
themselves. Additionally, these men, through their prestige, may be more able to
influence group decisions in their favour thus increasing their mate value further;
such an effect has been found in prestigious Tsimane men who in turn have
favourable fitness outcomes [40]. Dental research also suggests kombetis may have
access to a more nutritious diet, this may be a result of other camp members sharing
more high quality foods with them [41]. This position of kombeti is appointed, thus
attainting and maintaining this status is relies on social capital, and not excessively
exploiting it.
13. Figure 2—Sample sizes below the boxes ‘polygynous’ and ‘non-polygynous’
would be helpful.
We have now included a boxplot combining the results from all camps, sample sizes
are also included.
Response to Reviewer 2
This paper is a test of the primary correlates of polygny in BaYaka pygmies. The
authors find that the primary correlates of polygny are related to male social capital,
not male physical quality, as might be predicted from sexual selection theory. The
paper is straight forward, well-written and of appropriate length for the material
covered. The statistics seem to be justified given the data, and the conclusions follow
the results.
We are grateful to the reviewer for these comments. We now include some
discussion of causes of social capital inequality and more information on the position
of kombeti. Please see the replies below.
1. My one substantive comments relates to the discussion. Their findings are
interesting as they suggest polygyny in the BaYaka is related to a skewed
distribution of male quality, but social quality as opposed to physical quality.
This suggests male-male social competition is a driver of a skewed distribution in
fitness, rather than physical competition. It would be interesting to have some
discussion of this and the role of sexual selection or what might be termed sexual
social selection. This then begs the question of causality: what causes polygny,
skewed fitness, and social inequality to occur in the BaYaka, and is it possible to
untangle them?
We now include a discussion of how differences in social capital may occur, and how
men may compete in this form of sexual selection. This discussion is only speculative
at this stage, and a subject matter we certainly intend on addressing in future work.
Page x, lines x-y: To enhance our understanding of this topic further, it would be
interesting to investigate why certain men have more social capital than others, and
how men compete across this dimension. Australian Aborigine men enhance their
status via initiation rites and secret knowledge [42]; perhaps a similar process is
occurring with the BaYaka. There are a vast number of initiation rites that occur at
different stages of a man’s life, some which all men participate in and others which
only a fraction of men undergo. Status can be further augmented by becoming a
konja wa mokondi where one becomes an authoritative figure in the initiation of
others. Nganga is another of the few recognised positions held by the BaYaka and
refers to healers with advanced knowledge of bwanga – forest medicines [24, 26].
The attainment of such positions relies on specialist knowledge and individuals who
bear such knowledge are perceived to provide benefits to the group, and in turn are
likely to accrue social capital. Additionally, in many foraging societies good hunters
have high social status, which in turn provides benefits of extra-marital affairs and
favourable treatment from camp members who value their contribution and quality
[12, 43].
2. What is known of the kombetis position? Might this be related to tight exchange
partnerships with agricultural populations?
We now provide more information on the kombeti’s role.
Page x, lines x-y: BaYaka camps have a political position of kombeti, which can be
described as an appointed spokesperson who has influence, but not absolute
authority, over camp decisions regarding subsistence and movement, as well as
interactions with farmer and other non-BaYaka groups [24]. There are numerous
reasons why these individuals may have higher mate value to women. Although the
BaYaka generally do not accumulate material resources, they occasionally receive
resources such as money, clothes, machetes etc. from interaction with tourists,
researchers, farmers and government social programmes. Kombetis may manipulate
the distribution of these resources - in the past when we have given gifts for a camp,
the kombeti would direct their distribution and usually end up with a larger share (not
necessarily overtly); they also receive more goods such as cigarettes from farmers
[34]. It is noteworthy that this only occurs with resources that come from outside
groups; kombetis have no authority over resources produced by camp members
themselves. Additionally, these men, through their prestige, may be more able to
influence group decisions in their favour thus increasing their mate value further;
such an effect has been found in prestigious Tsimane men who in turn have
favourable fitness outcomes [40]. Dental research also suggests kombetis may have
access to a more nutritious diet, this may be a result of other camp members sharing
more high quality foods with them [41]. This position of kombeti is appointed, thus
attainting and maintaining this status is relies on social capital, and not excessively
exploiting it.
3. And one quibbling point: if the the role of kombeti is appointed rather than
inherited, this does not violate the "egalitarian ideal".
We no longer refer to a violation of the egalitarian ideal.
Page x, lines x-y: BaYaka camps have a political position of kombeti…
Society Open
