Leishmania naiffi and Leishmania guyanensis reference
genomes highlight genome structure and gene evolution in
the Viannia subgenus
Simone Coughlan, Ali Shirley Taylor, Eoghan Feane, Mandy Sanders, Gabriele Schonian,
James A. Cotton and Tim Downing
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172212.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172212
Review timeline
Original submission: 14 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 21 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 21 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172212.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jose Maria Requena)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
As indicated by the authors, the aim of this work was to increase the genomic information for
species of the Viannia subgenus. For this purpose, massive sequencing of genomic DNA from the
species L. naiffi (LnCL223) and L. guyanensis (LgCL085) was produced, and the sequence reads
used for assembly the corresponding genomes. As a control of the methodological pipeline, in
parallel, the procedure was tested using short sequence reads for L. braziliensis M2904 strain,
which assembled genome is currently available in databases. Moreover, the authors analyzed
sequence data for other Viannia species retrieved from publically available. Additionally, an
interesting phylogenetic tree was constructed by MLSA of around a hundred of isolates
belonging different species of the Viannia subgenus.
This manuscript contains a substantial amount of data for many Leishmania species and
describes in a detailed manner the procedure for analyzing genomic raw data derived from NGS-
sequencing. The authors are undoubtedly expert in the area, the manuscript is well written, it is
pitched at a great level, and it includes valuable technical information.
I have only minor comments for the authors to consider:
1. Page 4 (lines 116-118). This sentence is somewhat confuse, please, consider to rewrite.
2. Page 5 (lines 158-161). The authors indicate that contigs/scaffolds of the newly sequenced
genomes (L. guyanensis, L. naiffi and the L. braziliensis control) were contiguated using the
extensively finished L. braziliensis M2904 as the reference. However, it is questionable that
current L. braziliensis reference represents an extensively finished assembly. In fact, in this study,
some inconsistencies in this genome reference have been evidenced (remember also the bin
chromosome 0). Therefore, the authors should alert to the readers that this chromosomal
architecture may be considered provisional until new technical advances allow a full de novo
assembly of the genomes.
3. Tandem gene arrays are among the most challenging to resolve correctly using current genome
sequencing technology, since repetitive sequence reads tend to collapse into a single contig when
no variation exists to distinguish them. Hence, it is difficult to determine the presence and length
of tandem arrays; so it is likely that complete genome sequences may contain all distinctive gene
duplicates, but not the correct number.
I think that table 3 is intended to reflect this fact. However, I am not sure what it is found under
the columns named ‘Genes in OG’ and ‘OG haploid copy number’. Are they showing the number
of genes found in the assembled genomes? If no, could be included an additional column
showing this number? In this way, the readers will be informed about the difficulty to assemble
tandem repeated genes.
On the other hand, table 3 contains two OG, which called my attention because they contain two
types of genes clearly different. Thus, OG5_126623 contains two types of genes: glucose regulated
protein 94 (= lipophosphoglycan biosynthetic protein) and heat shock protein 90 (= heat shock
protein 83-1). The GRP94 is encoded by a single gene whereas HSP90/83 is a multicopy gene,
tandemly arranged. See: Shapira M et al (1989. Heat-shock protein 83 of Leishmania mexicana
3
amazonensis is an abundant cytoplasmic protein with a tandemly repeated genomic
arrangement. Eur J Biochem 185: 231-236) and Larreta R et al (2000. Leishmania infantum: gene
cloning of the GRP94 homologue, its expression as recombinant protein, and analysis of
antigenicity. Exp Parasitol 96: 108-115).
Similarly, the OG5_126588 contains two different genes: heat-shock protein hsp70 and glucose-
regulated protein 78. Again, hsp70 is encoded by multiple genes organized in tandem, whereas
grp78 is a single copy gene. See: Folgueira et al (2007. Genomic organization and expression of
the HSP70 locus in New and Old World Leishmania species. Parasitology 134: 369-377) and
Jensen et al (2001. Molecular and immunological characterisation of the glucose regulated protein
78 of Leishmania donovani. Biochim Biophys Acta 1549: 73-87).
- Page 5 (line 195). What is ‘seven relative’?
- Page 12 (line 527). Write ‘due’.
- Some references are incomplete. See 16, 23, 33, 39 and 63.
Jose M. Requena
Centro de Biologia Molecular Severo Ochoa
Universidad Autonoma de Madrid
28049 Madrid, Spain
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Minor comments
L53: please use the standard definition of mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (MCL) which is correctly
applied to the New World disease caused by Viannia parasites - i.e. characterized by
lymphatic/haematogenous dissemination from primary CL ulcers to mucosal tissues of mouth
and upper respiratory tract (ref [2] of the manuscript). On the other hand, “mucosal
4
leishmaniasis” (ML) consists of mucosal lesions which can be caused by any Old World
Leishmania and the New World L. infantum in elderly people or people with severe or minor
forms of immunosuppression, most often without primary skin lesions.
L65: please modify as “… via sand flies of the genus Lutzomyia (sensu Young and Duncan, 1994)
in the Americas … ”. (ref [33] of the manuscript, which however is incomplete) [Young DG,
Duncan MA. Guide to the identification and geographic distribution of Lutzomyia sandflies in
Mexico, the West Indies, Central and South America (Diptera: Psychodidae). Mem Am Entomol
Inst 1994; 54: 1–881].
According to the most eminent sand fly specialists, American species currently follow an updated
nomenclature that raises many Lutzomyia subgenera to the generic level, with at least 23 named
genera (Galati 2003) [Galati, E.A.B. (2003) Classificão de phlebotominae. Flebotomíneos
do Brasil (ed. by E. F. Rangel & R. Lainson), pp. 23–51. FIO CRUZ, Rio de Janeiro, RJ.]
L67-69: please rephrase this sentence because it could be interpreted as the possibility of direct
transmission (by contact - handling) between infected livestock and humans - which is not the
case.
L560: “manual checking”
L870: the reference is incomplete
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Carlos Roberto Alves)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I enjoyed reading this manuscript, which provides interesting insights on genomes structure and
gene content evolution in the Viannia subgenus taking as reference the protozoa Leishmania
naiffi and Leishmania guyanensis. Data obtained by the authors proposes new insights into the
origin and evolution of this subgenus. I agree that the methodology was adequately applied, but
5
there are some doubts in the text of manuscript. I've highlighted some of the issues that the
authors need to address prior resubmission, as follow:
•The title needs to rewrite as does not reflect the manuscript, followed: Insights of genome
structure and gene evolution in the Viannia subgenus based on Leishmania (Viannia) naiffi and
Leishmania (Viannia) guyanensis reference genomes.
•It is my opinion to be important to consider the Viannia subgenus in the protozoan
nomenclature of this study, through of the manuscript.
•I strongly suggest to the authors provide an extensive review of their results and discussion to
include the protease genes, as a group of genes that influence the evolution of these parasites.
These enzymes correspond to about 2% of the parasite's genome. The diversity of protease genes
among Leishmania species is related to their adaptations to the peculiarities of each
microenvironment they inhabit, such as the gut of phlebotomines and the immune cells of
vertebrate hosts (doi: 10.1186 / 1756-3305-7-387).
•The author needs to clarify as were obtained the parasite strains used in this study. This
information is very important due to recent legislation on access to the biodiversity on the
endemic areas.
•The discussion needs to be rewritten since the text is not nice to read. This section is poorly since
that stifle rather than stimulate engagement the improvement and losses on Viannia subgenus
parasite physiology and adaptation, with genome changes.
•The figure 3 needs to be reformatted. Was difficult to me understand the x-axis and y-axis.
•In conclusion section, the authors could highlight the more important finds of this work that can
help in refining the taxonomical complexity of and linking that to the pathologies cause by
parasites of Viannia subgenus.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172212)
14-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Downing
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-172212 entitled
"Leishmania naiffi and Leishmania guyanensis reference genomes highlight genome structure
and gene content evolution in the Viannia subgenus" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
The referees are very positive about publication, but they raise a number of points that would
merit consideration and revision, which will undoubtedly add to the clarity of the paper and the
presentation of the findings. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but please pay careful
attention to the suggested minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond
to the comments and revise your manuscript.
6
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172212
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
7
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 23-Mar-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
8
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Rees Kassen (Associate Editor) and Steve Brown (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Rees Kassen):
This paper has now been seen by three reviewers who all agree that the results presented
represent a valuable addition to the field of Leishmania genomics. No substantive criticisms on
the methodology or inferences made have been raised. Indeed, the bulk of the comments concern
issues of clarity in interpretation and writing. I am therefore happy to recommend the
manuscript be accepted for publication following a thorough revision for clarity that pays
particular attention to the concerns raised by the reviewers.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
As indicated by the authors, the aim of this work was to increase the genomic information for
species of the Viannia subgenus. For this purpose, massive sequencing of genomic DNA from the
species L. naiffi (LnCL223) and L. guyanensis (LgCL085) was produced, and the sequence reads
used for assembly the corresponding genomes. As a control of the methodological pipeline, in
parallel, the procedure was tested using short sequence reads for L. braziliensis M2904 strain,
which assembled genome is currently available in databases. Moreover, the authors analyzed
sequence data for other Viannia species retrieved from publically available. Additionally, an
interesting phylogenetic tree was constructed by MLSA of around a hundred of isolates
belonging different species of the Viannia subgenus.
This manuscript contains a substantial amount of data for many Leishmania species and
describes in a detailed manner the procedure for analyzing genomic raw data derived from NGS-
sequencing. The authors are undoubtedly expert in the area, the manuscript is well written, it is
pitched at a great level, and it includes valuable technical information.
9
I have only minor comments for the authors to consider:
1. Page 4 (lines 116-118). This sentence is somewhat confuse, please, consider to rewrite.
2. Page 5 (lines 158-161). The authors indicate that contigs/scaffolds of the newly sequenced
genomes (L. guyanensis, L. naiffi and the L. braziliensis control) were contiguated using the
extensively finished L. braziliensis M2904 as the reference. However, it is questionable that
current L. braziliensis reference represents an extensively finished assembly. In fact, in this study,
some inconsistencies in this genome reference have been evidenced (remember also the bin
chromosome 0). Therefore, the authors should alert to the readers that this chromosomal
architecture may be considered provisional until new technical advances allow a full de novo
assembly of the genomes.
3. Tandem gene arrays are among the most challenging to resolve correctly using current genome
sequencing technology, since repetitive sequence reads tend to collapse into a single contig when
no variation exists to distinguish them. Hence, it is difficult to determine the presence and length
of tandem arrays; so it is likely that complete genome sequences may contain all distinctive gene
duplicates, but not the correct number.
I think that table 3 is intended to reflect this fact. However, I am not sure what it is found under
the columns named ‘Genes in OG’ and ‘OG haploid copy number’. Are they showing the number
of genes found in the assembled genomes? If no, could be included an additional column
showing this number? In this way, the readers will be informed about the difficulty to assemble
tandem repeated genes.
On the other hand, table 3 contains two OG, which called my attention because they contain two
types of genes clearly different. Thus, OG5_126623 contains two types of genes: glucose regulated
protein 94 (= lipophosphoglycan biosynthetic protein) and heat shock protein 90 (= heat shock
protein 83-1). The GRP94 is encoded by a single gene whereas HSP90/83 is a multicopy gene,
tandemly arranged. See: Shapira M et al (1989. Heat-shock protein 83 of Leishmania mexicana
amazonensis is an abundant cytoplasmic protein with a tandemly repeated genomic
arrangement. Eur J Biochem 185: 231-236) and Larreta R et al (2000. Leishmania infantum: gene
cloning of the GRP94 homologue, its expression as recombinant protein, and analysis of
antigenicity. Exp Parasitol 96: 108-115).
Similarly, the OG5_126588 contains two different genes: heat-shock protein hsp70 and glucose-
regulated protein 78. Again, hsp70 is encoded by multiple genes organized in tandem, whereas
grp78 is a single copy gene. See: Folgueira et al (2007. Genomic organization and expression of
the HSP70 locus in New and Old World Leishmania species. Parasitology 134: 369-377) and
Jensen et al (2001. Molecular and immunological characterisation of the glucose regulated protein
78 of Leishmania donovani. Biochim Biophys Acta 1549: 73-87).
- Page 5 (line 195). What is ‘seven relative’?
- Page 12 (line 527). Write ‘due’.
- Some references are incomplete. See 16, 23, 33, 39 and 63.
Jose M. Requena
Centro de Biologia Molecular Severo Ochoa
Universidad Autonoma de Madrid
28049 Madrid, Spain
10
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Minor comments
L53: please use the standard definition of mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (MCL) which is correctly
applied to the New World disease caused by Viannia parasites - i.e. characterized by
lymphatic/haematogenous dissemination from primary CL ulcers to mucosal tissues of mouth
and upper respiratory tract (ref [2] of the manuscript). On the other hand, “mucosal
leishmaniasis” (ML) consists of mucosal lesions which can be caused by any Old World
Leishmania and the New World L. infantum in elderly people or people with severe or minor
forms of immunosuppression, most often without primary skin lesions.
L65: please modify as “… via sand flies of the genus Lutzomyia (sensu Young and Duncan, 1994)
in the Americas … ”. (ref [33] of the manuscript, which however is incomplete) [Young DG,
Duncan MA. Guide to the identification and geographic distribution of Lutzomyia sandflies in
Mexico, the West Indies, Central and South America (Diptera: Psychodidae). Mem Am Entomol
Inst 1994; 54: 1–881].
According to the most eminent sand fly specialists, American species currently follow an updated
nomenclature that raises many Lutzomyia subgenera to the generic level, with at least 23 named
genera (Galati 2003) [Galati, E.A.B. (2003) Classificão de phlebotominae. Flebotomíneos
do Brasil (ed. by E. F. Rangel & R. Lainson), pp. 23–51. FIO CRUZ, Rio de Janeiro, RJ.]
L67-69: please rephrase this sentence because it could be interpreted as the possibility of direct
transmission (by contact - handling) between infected livestock and humans - which is not the
case.
L560: “manual checking”
L870: the reference is incomplete
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
I enjoyed reading this manuscript, which provides interesting insights on genomes structure and
gene content evolution in the Viannia subgenus taking as reference the protozoa Leishmania
naiffi and Leishmania guyanensis. Data obtained by the authors proposes new insights into the
origin and evolution of this subgenus. I agree that the methodology was adequately applied, but
there are some doubts in the text of manuscript. I've highlighted some of the issues that the
authors need to address prior resubmission, as follow:
•The title needs to rewrite as does not reflect the manuscript, followed: Insights of genome
structure and gene evolution in the Viannia subgenus based on Leishmania (Viannia) naiffi and
Leishmania (Viannia) guyanensis reference genomes.
•It is my opinion to be important to consider the Viannia subgenus in the protozoan
nomenclature of this study, through of the manuscript.
•I strongly suggest to the authors provide an extensive review of their results and discussion to
include the protease genes, as a group of genes that influence the evolution of these parasites.
These enzymes correspond to about 2% of the parasite's genome. The diversity of protease genes
among Leishmania species is related to their adaptations to the peculiarities of each
11
microenvironment they inhabit, such as the gut of phlebotomines and the immune cells of
vertebrate hosts (doi: 10.1186 / 1756-3305-7-387).
•The author needs to clarify as were obtained the parasite strains used in this study. This
information is very important due to recent legislation on access to the biodiversity on the
endemic areas.
•The discussion needs to be rewritten since the text is not nice to read. This section is poorly since
that stifle rather than stimulate engagement the improvement and losses on Viannia subgenus
parasite physiology and adaptation, with genome changes.
•The figure 3 needs to be reformatted. Was difficult to me understand the x-axis and y-axis.
•In conclusion section, the authors could highlight the more important finds of this work that can
help in refining the taxonomical complexity of and linking that to the pathologies cause by
parasites of Viannia subgenus.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172212)
See Appendices A & B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172212.R1)
21-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Downing,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Leishmania naiffi and Leishmania
guyanensis reference genomes highlight genome structure and gene evolution in the Viannia
subgenus" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
12
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of (Associate Editor) and Steve Brown (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author ():
Reviewer comments to Author:
pendix A
Manuscript RSOS-172212 - Responses to reviewers
Leishmania naiffi and Leishmania guyanensis reference genomes highlight genome structure and gene
content evolution in the Viannia subgenus"
hor responses to the reviews are shown in bold.
______________
r Dr Downing
behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-172212 entitled
shmania naiffi and Leishmania guyanensis reference genomes highlight genome structure and gene
tent evolution in the Viannia subgenus" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
nce subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
referees are very positive about publication, but they raise a number of points that would merit
sideration and revision, which will undoubtedly add to the clarity of the paper and the presentation of
findings. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but please pay careful attention to the
gested minor revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and
se your manuscript.
hics statement
our study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received, including the
e of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail whether informed
sent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all permissions, licences and/or
rovals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
study did not use humans or animals so no Ethics statement is required.
ata accessibility
a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as supplementary
rmation or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data accessibility section should state
re the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section should also include details, where possible
here to access other relevant research materials such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be
essed. If the data has been deposited in an external repository this section should list the database,
ession number and link to the DOI for all data from the article that has been made publicly available.
a sets that have been deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately
d in the manuscript and included in the reference list.
Data Accessibility section is on lines 633-642. Our data is available on all relevant databases,
uding Dryad, as stated in the text: “For ease of reader access, the above genome sequence and
otation files, Supplementary Tables and Supplementary Data are also available on the Dryad Digital
ository at: https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.4bm23”.
dentifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold text, or
ked changes);
'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not highlight
m.
en uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions) and figure
tions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format should be
duced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
ncluded a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please ensure you
e entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user account;
le-celled parasites called Leishmania cause leishmaniasis, resulting in chronic infections and often
th, particularly in sub-tropical regions with limited healthcare access. In South America, most cases of
ase are due to infections by the Viannia subgenus of Leishmania, whose genetic diversity remains
rly understood. For the first time, we assembled and annotated high-quality genomes for Leishmania
nnia) naiffi and Leishmania (Viannia) guyanensis and compared these to ten other Viannia
b)species’ genomes to detail new findings on the evolution of these Leishmania and their genes. This
assist work on diagnostic tests, epidemiology and identifying targets for new and existing drugs.
plementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on the online
hare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for each supplementary file
ing the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so please ensure these are accurate
informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files on figshare will be made available
roximately one week before the accompanying article so that the supplementary material can be
ibuted a unique DOI.
ociate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Rees Kassen):
paper has now been seen by three reviewers who all agree that the results presented represent a
able addition to the field of Leishmania genomics. No substantive criticisms on the methodology or
rences made have been raised. Indeed, the bulk of the comments concern issues of clarity in
rpretation and writing. I am therefore happy to recommend the manuscript be accepted for
lication following a thorough revision for clarity that pays particular attention to the concerns raised by
reviewers.
appreciate the efforts of the editors and reviewers and made adjustments to make the writing and
ults more clear.
iewer comments to Author:
iewer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
ndicated by the authors, the aim of this work was to increase the genomic information for species of the
nnia subgenus. For this purpose, massive sequencing of genomic DNA from the species L. naiffi
CL223) and L. guyanensis (LgCL085) was produced, and the sequence reads used for assembly the
esponding genomes. As a control of the methodological pipeline, in parallel, the procedure was tested
g short sequence reads for L. braziliensis M2904 strain, which assembled genome is currently available
atabases. Moreover, the authors analyzed sequence data for other Viannia species retrieved from
lically available. Additionally, an interesting phylogenetic tree was constructed by MLSA of around a
dred of isolates belonging different species of the Viannia subgenus.
manuscript contains a substantial amount of data for many Leishmania species and describes in a
ailed manner the procedure for analyzing genomic raw data derived from NGS-sequencing. The authors
undoubtedly expert in the area, the manuscript is well written, it is pitched at a great level, and it
udes valuable technical information.
thank the reviewer for their examination of the paper.
ve only minor comments for the authors to consider:
age 4 (lines 116-118). This sentence is somewhat confuse, please, consider to rewrite.
added the word “genes” so this part now reads “… Viannia parasites possess genes encoding
ctioning RNA interference (RNAi) machinery …”.
age 5 (lines 158-161). The authors indicate that contigs/scaffolds of the newly sequenced genomes (L.
anensis, L. naiffi and the L. braziliensis control) were contiguated using the extensively finished L.
ziliensis M2904 as the reference. However, it is questionable that current L. braziliensis reference
resents an extensively finished assembly. In fact, in this study, some inconsistencies in this genome
rence have been evidenced (remember also the bin chromosome 0). Therefore, the authors should
t to the readers that this chromosomal architecture may be considered provisional until new technical
ances allow a full de novo assembly of the genomes.
agree that these genomes can be improved further. We acknowledge this at lines 389-390 in the
sed manuscript Discussion, saying “These findings highlight scope to resolve Leishmania
omosomal architecture more accurately, particularly at repetitive regions and gene arrays, using
ger sequencing reads and hybrid assembly approaches”.
andem gene arrays are among the most challenging to resolve correctly using current genome
uencing technology, since repetitive sequence reads tend to collapse into a single contig when no
ation exists to distinguish them. Hence, it is difficult to determine the presence and length of tandem
ys; so it is likely that complete genome sequences may contain all distinctive gene duplicates, but not
correct number.
nk that table 3 is intended to reflect this fact. However, I am not sure what it is found under the
mns named ‘Genes in OG’ and ‘OG haploid copy number’. Are they showing the number of genes found
he assembled genomes? If no, could be included an additional column showing this number? In this
, the readers will be informed about the difficulty to assemble tandem repeated genes.
‘Genes in OG’ shows the number of genes associated with that GO functional category. And then ‘OG
loid copy number’ indicates the numbers of haploid gene copies found in each genome.
sequently, an additional column may not be required. To clarify this for the readers, we added this to
legend: “Genes in OG shows the number of genes associated with that GO functional category. OG
loid copy number indicates the numbers of haploid gene copies found in each genome”.
the other hand, table 3 contains two OG, which called my attention because they contain two types of
es clearly different. Thus, OG5_126623 contains two types of genes: glucose regulated protein 94 (=
phosphoglycan biosynthetic protein) and heat shock protein 90 (= heat shock protein 83-1). The GRP94
ncoded by a single gene whereas HSP90/83 is a multicopy gene, tandemly arranged. See: Shapira M et al
89. Heat-shock protein 83 of Leishmania mexicana amazonensis is an abundant cytoplasmic protein with
ndemly repeated genomic arrangement. Eur J Biochem 185: 231-236) and Larreta R et al (2000.
hmania infantum: gene cloning of the GRP94 homologue, its expression as recombinant protein, and
lysis of antigenicity. Exp Parasitol 96: 108-115).
ilarly, the OG5_126588 contains two different genes: heat-shock protein hsp70 and glucose-regulated
tein 78. Again, hsp70 is encoded by multiple genes organized in tandem, whereas grp78 is a single copy
e. See: Folgueira et al (2007. Genomic organization and expression of the HSP70 locus in New and Old
rld Leishmania species. Parasitology 134: 369-377) and Jensen et al (2001. Molecular and immunological
racterisation of the glucose regulated protein 78 of Leishmania donovani. Biochim Biophys Acta 1549:
87).
reviewer’s points are supported by our data.
ed on other work and our own examination of
t shock protein genes, these appear to be the
n cause of amplifications of those two OGs.
G5_126623, heat shock protein 90 / 83-1 has
copies: LbrM.33.0330 at 112,573-113,652
LbrM.33.0350 at 119,678-120,817. The L.
ziliensis read coverage at this region shown
t highlights the higher copy number at this
on. No equivalent coverage change is evident
glucose regulated protein 94 /
phosphoglycan biosynthetic protein
M.20.2700).
G5_126588, hsp70 is known to have
ervariability, especially at 1079551-1081071
82,439-1,084,403 of LbrM.28 spanning a tandem amplification of family HSPA1A1/B. The grp78 gene
no change in coverage.
larify this issue in terms of the paper, the legend now includes the statement “For OG5_126623 and
5_126588, the elevated copy number were due to amplificated heat shock protein (hsp) genes rather
n the glucose regulated protein (grp) loci, a potential limitation of OG analyses”. We have ongoing
k attempting to clarify the complex structures of hsp genes (hsp70 in particular): examining the gene
ilies rather than the OGs may be a more effective method for understanding CNVs in Leishmania, but
is beyond this scope of this paper.
ge 5 (line 195). What is ‘seven relative’?
t part at revised manuscript line 196 was revised to say “… seven differences versus L. shawi M8408
ge 12 (line 527). Write ‘due’.
was amended at line 530.
me references are incomplete. See 16, 23, 33, 39 and 63.
amended this as per Royal Society Open Science Open Biology style as advised in the author
ructions.
M. Requena
tro de Biologia Molecular Severo Ochoa
versidad Autonoma de Madrid
49 Madrid, Spain
iewer: 2
ments to the Author(s)
or comments
: please use the standard definition of mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (MCL) which is correctly applied to
New World disease caused by Viannia parasites - i.e. characterized by lymphatic/haematogenous
emination from primary CL ulcers to mucosal tissues of mouth and upper respiratory tract (ref [2] of the
nuscript). On the other hand, “mucosal leishmaniasis” (ML) consists of mucosal lesions which can be
sed by any Old World Leishmania and the New World L. infantum in elderly people or people with
ere or minor forms of immunosuppression, most often without primary skin lesions.
changed ML to “mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (MCL)” as advised.
: please modify as “… via sand flies of the genus Lutzomyia (sensu Young and Duncan, 1994) in the
ericas … ”. (ref [33] of the manuscript, which however is incomplete) [Young DG, Duncan MA. Guide to
identification and geographic distribution of Lutzomyia sandflies in Mexico, the West Indies, Central
South America (Diptera: Psychodidae). Mem Am Entomol Inst 1994; 54: 1–881].
ording to the most eminent sand fly specialists, American species currently follow an updated
enclature that raises many Lutzomyia subgenera to the generic level, with at least 23 named genera
lati 2003) [Galati, E.A.B. (2003) Classificão de phlebotominae. Flebotomíneos
Brasil (ed. by E. F. Rangel & R. Lainson), pp. 23–51. FIO CRUZ, Rio de Janeiro, RJ.]
made that suggested change at line 65 (“…via sand flies of the genus Lutzomyia (sensu Young and
can, 1994 [33]) in the Americas,…). We do not comment in detail on the Lutzomyia genus or species
onomy.
-69: please rephrase this sentence because it could be interpreted as the possibility of direct
smission (by contact - handling) between infected livestock and humans - which is not the case.
altered those lines at 68-70 to say “there is still a strong association of some Leishmania with sylvatic
ironments, such that human infection is accidentally acquired due to sand fly bites when handling
stock”.
0: “manual checking”
was corrected to “manual”.
0: the reference is incomplete
references were corrected.
iewer: 3
ments to the Author(s)
joyed reading this manuscript, which provides interesting insights on genomes structure and gene
tent evolution in the Viannia subgenus taking as reference the protozoa Leishmania naiffi and
hmania guyanensis. Data obtained by the authors proposes new insights into the origin and evolution
his subgenus. I agree that the methodology was adequately applied, but there are some doubts in the
of manuscript. I've highlighted some of the issues that the authors need to address prior resubmission,
ollow:
appreciate the reviewer’s assessment of the paper.
e title needs to rewrite as does not reflect the manuscript, followed: Insights of genome structure and
e evolution in the Viannia subgenus based on Leishmania (Viannia) naiffi and Leishmania (Viannia)
anensis reference genomes.
suggest that the suggested title above and the current title are somewhat equivalent: the existing
links the references to Viannia genome/gene evolution, and the proposed one links Viannia
ome/gene evolution to the references. We agree that the word “content” should be dropped.
s my opinion to be important to consider the Viannia subgenus in the protozoan nomenclature of this
dy, through of the manuscript.
submitted version did this in the Abstract and main text. To emphasis the Viannia subgenus context
re explicitly, we added the subgenus name at each new section: eg at line 142 “The genomes of L.
nnia) guyanensis LgCL085 and L. (V.) naiffi LnCL223 …”. And at lines 369 the heading is “L. (Viannia)
anensis and L. (V.) naiffi draft reference genomes” followed by the text: “We assembled high-quality
rence genomes for two isolates, L. (Viannia) guyanensis LgCL085 and L. (V.) naiffi LnCL223, …”. And at
445 in the Conclusion; “The L. (Viannia) guyanensis and L. (V.) naiffi genomes …”.
trongly suggest to the authors provide an extensive review of their results and discussion to include the
tease genes, as a group of genes that influence the evolution of these parasites. These enzymes
espond to about 2% of the parasite's genome. The diversity of protease genes among Leishmania
cies is related to their adaptations to the peculiarities of each microenvironment they inhabit, such as
gut of phlebotomines and the immune cells of vertebrate hosts (doi: 10.1186 / 1756-3305-7-387).
addressed this to an extent by identifying one key M8 family metalloprotease, leishmanolysin
63), which was amplified extensively both in the Viannia and other subgenera (lines 346-355 in the
ults). We did not find any other protease genes with such a strong genetic signature and prior
ctional characterisation: we mention this in the text “This was the sole protease-related OG amplified
ll three species (Table S23)”. However, we did examine all genes via their orthologous groups (OGs)
uding leishmanolysin in OG5_126749 and many other proteases, which is reflected in Table S23 in the
plementary Data along with the text: “Among protease-related genes, only the M8 family
alloprotease leishmanolysin (GP63) array in OG5_126749 was amplified based on the 327 L. naiffi
L223, 334 L. guyanensis LgCL085 and 255 L. braziliensis M2904 control gene arrays (Table S23).
5_129169 encoding a prenyl protease gene had elevated copy numbers in L. braziliensis and L. naiffi,
wise for a serine peptidase gene in OG5_126636 for L. guyanensis and L. naiffi, a cysteine peptidase
e in OG5_126607 for L. braziliensis and L. guyanensis, and a proteasome subunit gene in OG5_127562
. naiffi”.
e author needs to clarify as were obtained the parasite strains used in this study. This information is
y important due to recent legislation on access to the biodiversity on the endemic areas.
acknowledge the need for more precise sample tracking and concerns about new laws for the
tection of biodiversity in certain regions. All available information on the origin of these isolates has
n included in the Methods section: these were isolates sequenced at the Sanger Institute in 2012,
ing from the long-term Charité University Medicine Berlin biobank of stored DNA samples. Although
her details were sought, these were not documented at the original time of isolation.
e discussion needs to be rewritten since the text is not nice to read. This section is poorly since that
e rather than stimulate engagement the improvement and losses on Viannia subgenus parasite
siology and adaptation, with genome changes.
modified the Discussion to make it easier to read. Our expertise is stronger on genomics than
chemistry and metabolism, so by making all data and results accessible readers, they will be able to
end this work in new directions that we cannot tackle.
e figure 3 needs to be reformatted. Was difficult to me understand the x-axis and y-axis.
adjusted Figure 3 and its axes to include the chromosome position units, legends indicating the
sence of the minichromosome and 45 Kb CNV, and the read depth coverage on the y-axis. To make it
ier to read, we split Figures 3A and 3B into Figures 3 and 4.
conclusion section, the authors could highlight the more important finds of this work that can help in
ning the taxonomical complexity of and linking that to the pathologies cause by parasites of Viannia
genus.
adjusted the Conclusion to address this in more detail by stating that the “L. (Viannia) guyanensis
L. (V.) naiffi genomes represent a further advance in refining the taxonomical complexity of the
nnia by illustrating their genomic characteristics and the extent to which these are shared across
nnia species, which will assist examining the extent to which they can hybridise. This improved
erstanding of Leishmania genomes should be used to explore the complex epidemiology of CL and
L pathologies in the Americas and the roles of non-human reservoirs and sand flies in these
cesses.”
Appendix B
1 Leishmania naiffi and Leishmania guyanensis reference genomes highlight genome
2 structure and gene content evolution in the Viannia subgenus
3
4
5 Authors: Simone Coughlan (1), Ali Shirley Taylor (2), Eoghan Feane (2), Mandy Sanders (3),
6 Gabriele Schonian (4), James A. Cotton (3), Tim Downing (1,2*).
7
8 Affiliations:
9 (1) School of Mathematics, Applied Mathematics and Statistics, National University of Ireland,
10 Galway, Ireland.
11 (2) School of Biotechnology, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland.
12 (3) Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, UK.
13 (4) Charité University Medicine, Berlin, Germany.
14 * Corresponding author
15
16 Email addresses:
17 Simone Coughlan: coughls@gmail.com
18 Ali Taylor: ali.taylor7@mail.dcu.ie
19 Eoghan Feane: eoghan.feane2@mail.dcu.ie
20 Mandy Sanders: mjs@sanger.ac.uk
21 Gabriele Schonian: gabriele.schoenian@t-online.de
22 James A. Cotton: jc17@sanger.ac.uk
23 Tim Downing: tim.downing@dcu.ie
24
25 Abstract
26
27 The unicellular protozoan parasite Leishmania causes the neglected tropical disease
28 leishmaniasis, affecting 12 million people in 98 countries. In South America where the Viannia
29 subgenus predominates, so far only L. (Viannia) braziliensis and L. (V.) panamensis have been
30 sequenced, assembled and annotated as reference genomes. Addressing this deficit in
31 molecular information can inform species typing, epidemiological monitoring and clinical
32 treatment. Here, L. (V.) naiffi and L. (V.) guyanensis genomic DNA was sequenced to assemble
33 these two genomes as draft references from short sequence reads. The methods used were
34 tested using short sequence reads for L. braziliensis M2904 against its published reference as a
35 comparison. This assembly and annotation pipeline identified 70 additional genes not
36 annotated on the original M2904 reference. Phylogenetic and evolutionary comparisons of L.
37 guyanensis and L. naiffi with ten other Viannia genomes revealed four traits common to all
38 Viannia: aneuploidy, 22 orthologous groups of genes absent in other Leishmania subgenera,
39 elevated TATE transposon copies, and a high NADH-dependent fumarate reductase gene copy
40 number. Within the Viannia, there were limited structural changes in genome architecture
41 specific to individual species: a 45 Kb amplification on chromosome 34 was present in all bar
42 L. lainsoni, L. naiffi had a higher copy number of the virulence factor leishmanolysin, and
43 laboratory isolate L. shawi M8408 had a possible minichromosome derived from the 3’ end of
44 chromosome 34. This combination of genome assembly, phylogenetics and comparative
45 analysis across an extended panel of diverse Viannia has uncovered new insights into the origin
46 and evolution of this subgenus and can help improve diagnostics for leishmaniasis surveillance.
47
48 Keywords: Leishmania; leishmaniasis; genome; assembly; aneuploidy.
49
50 Copyright: CC-BY-NC-ND
51
52 Introduction
53
54 Most cutaneous (CL) and mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (MCL) mucosal leishmaniasis (ML)
55 cases in the Americas are the result of infection by Leishmania parasites belonging to the
56 Viannia subgenus. The complexity of the molecular, epidemiological and ecological challenges
57 associated with Leishmania in South America remains opaque due to our limited understanding
58 of the biology of Viannia parasites. Nine Viannia (sub)species have been described so far: L.
59 (V.) braziliensis, L. (V.) peruviana, L. (V.) guyanensis, L. (V.) panamensis, L. (V.) shawi, L.
60 (V.) lainsoni, L. (V.) naiffi, L. (V.) lindenbergi and L. (V.) utingensis. CL and MLMCL are
61 endemic in 18 out 20 countries in the Americas [1] and are mainly associated with L.
62 braziliensis, L. guyanensis, and L. panamensis, whose frequency varies geographically. Other
63 species are less frequently associated with human disease, and some are restricted to certain
64 areas [2].
65
66 Human CL is partially driven by transmission from sylvatic and peridomestic mammalian
67 reservoirs [3], via sand flies of the genus Lutzomyia (sensu Young and Duncan, 1994) in the
68 Americas, distinct from Phlebotomus sand flies in the Old World [4]. Although CL has spread
69 to domestic and peridomestic niches due to migration, new settlements and deforestation [5-7],
70 there is still a high incidence of some Leishmania in sylvatic envinronments, such that human
71 infection is accidentally acquired due to direct contactsand fly bites when handling livestock
72 [8]. L. naiffi and L. guyanensis are among the Viannia species that show variable responses to
73 treatment, and diversity in the types of clinical manifestations presented, and are adapting to
74 environmental niche and transmission changes driven by humans.
75
76
77 L. naiffi was formally described from a parasite isolated in 1989 from its primary reservoir, the
78 nine-banded armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus), in Pará state of northern Brazil [9-11]. L. naiffi
79 was initially placed in the Viannia subgenus based on its molecular and immunological
80 characteristics [9]. Many phlebotomine species are likely to participate in the transmission of L.
81 naiffi in Amazonia [12], including Lu. (Psathyromyia) ayrozai and Lu. (Psychodopygus)
82 paraensis in Brazil [13], Lu. (Psathyromyia) squamiventris and Lu. tortura in Ecuador [14],
83 and Lu. trapidoi and Lu. gomezi in Panama [30]. L. naiffi has been isolated from humans and
84 armadillos [9-10], and detected in Thrichomys pachyurus rodents found in the same habitat as
85 D. novemcinctus in Brazil [16]. The nine-banded armadillo is hunted, handled and consumed in
86 the Americas and is regarded as a pest [11,17-18]. People in the same vector range as these
87 armadillos could be exposed to infective sand flies: three L. naiffi CL cases followed contact
88 with armadillos in Suriname [19]. L. naiffi causes localised CL in humans with small discrete
89 lesions on the hands, arms or legs [10,20-21], which has been observed in Brazil, French
90 Guiana, Ecuador, Peru and Suriname [19,22]. CL due to L. naiffi usually responds to treatment
91 [10,22] and can be self-limiting [23], though poor response to antimonial or pentamidine
92 therapy was reported in two patients in Manaus, Brazil [20].
93
94 L. guyanensis was first described in 1954 [24] and its primary hosts are the forest dwelling
95 two-toed sloth (Choloepus didactylus) and the lesser anteater Tamandua tetradactyl [25].
96 Potential secondary reservoirs of L. guyanensis are Didelphis marsupialis (the common
97 opossum) [26,27], rodents from the genus Proechimys [25], Marmosops incanus (the grey
98 slender opposum) [28] in Brazil, and D. novemcinctus [29]. Lu. umbratilis, Lu. anduzei and Lu.
99 whitmani are prevalent in forests [30] and act as vectors of L. guyanensis [31-33]. L.
100 guyanensis has been found in French Guiana, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Guyana, Venezuela,
101 Ecuador, Peru, Argentina and Suriname [34-39].
102
103 More precise genetic screening of Viannia isolates is necessary to trace hybridisation between
104 species. Infection of humans, dogs and Lu. ovallesi with L. guyanensis/L. braziliensis hybrids
2|Page
105 was reported in Venezuela [40-41]. A L. shawi/L. guyanensis hybrid causing CL was detected
106 in Amazonian Brazil [42], and L. naiffi has produced viable progeny with L. lainsoni [43] and
107 L. braziliensis (Elisa Cupolillo, unpublished data). There is extensive evidence of interbreeding
108 among L. braziliensis complex isolates, including more virulent L. braziliensis/L. peruviana
109 hybrids with higher survival rates within hosts in vitro [44].
110
111 Leishmania genomes are characterised by several key features. Genes are organised as
112 polycistronic transcription units that have a high degree of synteny across Leishmania species
113 [45]. These polycistronic transcription units are co-transcribed by RNA polymerase II as
114 polycistronic pre-mRNAs that are 5’-transpliced and 3’-polyadenylated [46,47]. This means
115 translation and stability of these mature mRNAs determines gene expression rather than
116 transcription rates. In addition, Leishmania display extensive aneuploidy, frequently possess
117 extrachromosomal amplifications driven by homologous recombination at repetitive sequences,
118 and have variable gene copy numbers [48]. The Leishmania subgenus genomes of L. infantum,
119 L. donovani, and L. major have 36 chromosomes [49], whereas Viannia genomes have 35
120 chromosomes due to a fusion of chromosomes 20 and 34 [45,50]. In contrast to the species of
121 the Leishmania subgenus, Viannia parasites possess genes encoding functioning RNA
122 interference (RNAi) machinery that may mediate infective viruses and transposable elements
123 [51].
124
125 Fully annotated genomes have been described in detail for only two Viannia species: L.
126 panamensis [51] and L. braziliensis [45,48], limiting our comprehension of their evolutionary
127 origin, genetic diversity and functional adaptations. Consequently, we present reference
128 genomes for L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L. naiffi LnCL223 to address these critical gaps.
129 These new annotated reference genomes were compared to other Viannia species genomes to
130 examine structural variation, sequence divergence, gene synteny and chromosome copy
131 number changes. We contrasted the genomic configuration of L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L.
132 naiffi LnCL223 with the L. braziliensis MHOM/BR/1975/M2903 assembly, two unannotated
133 L. peruviana chromosome-level scaffold assemblies [52], the L. panamensis
134 MHOM/PA/1994/PSC-1 reference and the L. braziliensis MHOM/BR/1975/M2904 reference.
135 Furthermore, we assessed aneuploidy in five unassembled Viannia datasets originally isolated
136 from humans, armadillos and primates, which are commonly used in studies on Viannia
137 parasites [53–56]: L. shawi reference isolate MCEB/BR/1984/M8408 also known as
138 IOC_L1545, L. guyanensis MHOM/BR/1975/M4147 (iz34), L. naiffi MDAS/BR/1979/M5533
139 (IOC_L1365), L. lainsoni MHOM/BR/1981/M6426 (IOC_L1023), L. panamensis
140 MHOM/PA/1974/WR120 [53] (IOC stands for Instituto Oswaldo Cruz).
141
142 Results
143
144 Genome assembly from short-reads
145 The genomes of L. (Viannia). guyanensis LgCL085 and L. (V.) naiffi LnCL223 were assembled
146 from short reads, along with an assembly of L. braziliensis M2904 generated in the same way
147 as a positive control [48] (Table 1). This facilitated comparison with the published M2904
148 genome, which was assembled by capillary sequencing of a plasmid clone library together with
149 extensive finishing work and with fosmid end sequencing [45], so that the ability of short reads
150 to correctly and comprehensively resolve Leishmania genome architecture could be quantified.
151
152 Firstly, the L. guyanensis LgCL085, L. naiffi LnCL223 and the L. braziliensis M2904 control
153 reads were filtered to remove putative contaminant sequences identified by aberrant GC
154 content, trimmed at the 3’ ends to remove low quality bases, and PCR primer sequences were
155 removed (see Methods for details) resulting in 26,067,692 properly paired reads for L.
156 guyanensis, 13,979,628 for L. naiffi, 34,592,618 for the L. (V.) braziliensis control (Table S1).
157 These filtered reads for L. guyanensis, L. naiffi and L. braziliensis were de novo assembled into
3|Page
158 contigs using Velvet [57] with k-mers of 61 for L. guyanensis, 43 for L. naiffi and 43 for the L.
159 braziliensis control optimised for each library.
160
161 The initial contigs were scaffolded using read pair information with SSPACE [58] to yield
162 2,800 L. guyanensis scaffolds with an N50 of 95.4 Kb, 6,530 L. naiffi scaffolds with an N50 of
163 24.3 Kb, and 3,782 L. braziliensis scaffolds with an N50 of 20.6 Kb (Table 2). The corrected
164 scaffolds for L. guyanensis, L. naiffi and the L. braziliensis control were contiguated (aligned,
165 ordered and oriented) using the extensively finished L. braziliensis M2904 reference with
166 ABACAS [59]. The output was split into 35 pseudo-chromosomes and REAPR [60] broke
167 scaffolds at possible misassemblies to assess contiguation accuracy. The pseudo-chromosome
168 lengths of each sample approximated the length of each corresponding L. braziliensis M2904
169 reference chromosome with the exceptions of shorter L. guyanensis chromosomes 2, 4, 12 and
170 21, and a longer L. naiffi chromosome 1 (Figure S1). Post-assembly alignment of all bin
171 contigs using BLASTn identified 44 L. guyanensis sequences spanning 4,566,791 bp as
172 putative contaminants that were removed: half had high similarity to bacterium Niastella
173 koreensis (Table S2).
174
175 When the reads for each were mapped to its own assembled genome, the median read coverage
176 was 56 for L. guyanensis, 36 for L. naiffi and 75 for the L. braziliensis control. The latter was
177 on par with the 74-fold median coverage observed when M2904 short reads were mapped to
178 the L. braziliensis reference [45,48] (Table S3). The differing coverage levels correlated with
179 the numbers of gaps in the final genome assembly of L. guyanensis (1,557, Table 2) and L.
180 naiffi (3,853).
181
182 MLSA of L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L. naiffi LnCL223 with the Viannia subgenus
183 As a first step in investigating the genetic origins of these isolates, we examined their species
184 identity using MLSA (multi-locus sequencing analysis). Four housekeeping gene sequences
185 published for 95 Viannia isolates including L. braziliensis, L. lainsoni, L. lindenbergi, L.
186 utingensis, L. guyanensis, L. shawi and L. naiffi [56] were compared with orthologs of each
187 gene extracted from assemblies of L. naiffi LnCL223, L. guyanensis LgCL085, the L.
188 braziliensis reference, L. panamensis PSC-1 and L. peruviana PAB-4377. Among the 95 were
189 four samples with reads available [53]: L. shawi MCEB/BR/1984/M8408 (IOC_L1545), L.
190 guyanensis MHOM/BR/1975/M4147 (iz34), L. naiffi MDAS/BR/1979/M5533 (IOC_L1365)
191 and L. lainsoni MHOM/BR/1981/M6426 (IOC_L1023). The genes were aligned using Clustal
192 Omega v1.1 [61] to create a network for the 102 isolates with SplitsTree v4.13.1 [62]. This
193 replicated the expected highly reticulated structure [56] where L. braziliensis M2904 and L.
194 peruviana PAB-4377 were in the L. braziliensis cluster (Figure 1).
195
196 Previous work suggests that the L. guyanensis species complex includes L. panamensis and L.
197 shawi because they show little genetic differentiation from one another [56,63-65]. The MLSA
198 here showed that the new L. guyanensis LgCL085 reference clustered phylogenetically in the
199 L. guyanensis species complex, had no sequence differences compared to L. panamensis PSC-
200 1, and seven differences relative toversus L. shawi M8408 across the 2,902 sites aligned
201 (Figure 1). L. guyanensis LgCL085 grouped with isolates classified as zymodeme Z26 by
202 multilocus enzyme electrophoresis (MLEE) associated with L. shawi [54]. This was supported
203 by the number and the alleles of genome-wide SNPs called using reads mapped to the L.
204 braziliensis M2904 reference for L. guyanensis (355,267 SNPs), L. guyanensis M4147
205 (326,491), L. panamensis WR120 (294,459) and L. shawi M8408 (296,095) (Table S4).
206
207 The L. naiffi LnCL223 was closest to L. naiffi ISQU/BR/1994/IM3936, with two differences. It
208 clustered with MLEE zymodeme Z49 based on the correspondence between the MLSA
209 network and previously typed zymodemes, though L. naiffi is associated with more zymodemes
210 than other Viannia. The number and the alleles of genome-wide SNPs called using reads
4|Page
211 mapped to the L. braziliensis reference were similar for L. naiffi (548,256) and M5533
212 (633,560) (Table S4) and consistent with the MLSA genetic distances.
213
214 There was no evidence of recent gene flow between these three species at any genome-wide 10
215 Kb segment and L. naiffi LnCL223 had fewer SNPs compared to L. braziliensis M2904 than L.
216 guyanensis LgCL085 (Figure S2). Linking the MLSA network topology with previous work
217 [56,63-65], four genetically distinct species complexes are represented by the genome-
218 sequenced Viannia at present: (i) braziliensis including L. peruviana, (ii) guyanensis including
219 L. panamensis and L. shawi, (iii) naiffi, and (iv) lainsoni (Table S4), and the less explored (v)
220 lindenbergi and (vi) utingensis complexes (Figure 1).
221
222 Ancestral diploidy and constitutive aneuploidy in Viannia
223 The normalised chromosomal coverage of the L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L. naiffi LnCL223
224 reads mapped to L. braziliensis M2904 showed aneuploidy on a background of a diploid
225 nuclear genome (Figure 2). The coverage levels of reads for L. peruviana LEM1537, L.
226 peruviana PAB-4377, L. panamensis PSC-1 and the triploid L. braziliensis control mapped to
227 the M2904 reference, confirmed previous work (Figure S3), including the L. braziliensis
228 control (Figure S4), and demonstrated that assemblies from short read data were sufficient to
229 estimate chromosome copy number differences. Repeating this for L. shawi M8408, L. naiffi
230 M5533, L. guyanensis M4147, L. panamensis WR120 and L. lainsoni M6426 showed that all
231 these Viannia were predominantly disomic and thus diploidy was the likely ancestral state of
232 this subgenus (Figure 2).
233
234 The somy patterns were supported by the results of mapping the reads of each sample to their
235 own assembled genome or to the M2904 reference to produce the read depth allele frequency
236 (RDAF) distributions from heterozygous SNPs. The majority of L. braziliensis M2904 control
237 chromosomes had peaks with modes at ~33% and ~67% indicating trisomy, rather than a single
238 peak at ~50% consistent with disomy (Figure S5). The RDAF distributions from reads mapped
239 to its own assembly for L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L. naiffi LnCL223 had a mode of ~50%
240 (Figure S6), including peaks indicating trisomy for LgCL085 chromosomes 13, 26 and 35
241 (Figure S7).
242
243 8,262 L. naiffi and 8,376 L. guyanensis genes annotated
244 A total of 8,262 genes were annotated on L. naiffi LnCL223: of these 8,104 were protein
245 coding genes, 78 were tRNAs, 15 rRNA genes, four snoRNA genes, two snRNA genes, and 59
246 pseudogenes. 310 genes were on unassigned contigs (Table S3). 8,376 genes were annotated on
247 L. guyanensis LgCL085: of these 8,230 were protein coding genes, 75 tRNAs, 14 rRNA genes,
248 four snoRNA genes, two snRNA genes and 51 pseudogenes. 619 genes were on unassigned
249 contigs
250
251 There were 8,161 genes (8,001 protein coding) transferred to the control L. braziliensis
252 genome, along with 76 tRNAs, two snRNA genes, four snoRNA genes, 13 rRNA genes and 65
253 pseudogenes (Table 2). 7,719 of the protein coding genes (96.5%) clustered into 7,244 OGs,
254 whereas 8,137 of the 8,375 (97.2%) protein coding genes on the L. braziliensis reference
255 grouped into 7,383 OGs. This indicated that 97% of protein coding genes in OGs were
256 recovered, and only 2.8% (235) across 201 OGs were absent in the M2904 control, mainly
257 hypothetical or encoded ribosomal proteins (Table S5). In the same way, we found 70 protein
258 coding genes (Table S6) in 62 OGs on the M2904 control absent in the published L.
259 braziliensis annotation.
260
261 Few genes were present in L. braziliensis but absent in L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L. naiffi
262 LnCL223. Coverage depth was used to predict each gene’s haploid copy number, such that
263 genes with haploid copy numbers at least twice the assembled copy number indicated partially
5|Page
264 assembled genes in the reference assembly. Thus, we investigated all OGs with haploid copy
265 numbers at least twice the assembled copy number to quantity completeness of the assembly.
266 Only 145 genes in 92 OGs on L. guyanensis LgCL085 (Table S7), 142 genes in 90 OGs on L.
267 naiffi LnCL223 (Table S8) and 102 genes in 71 OGs (Table S9) on the L. braziliensis control
268 met this criterion, indicating few unassembled genes in each assembly. One hypothetical gene
269 (LnCL223_272760) in L. naiffi LnCL223 with no retrievable information had a haploid copy
270 number of 15 (OG5_173495), whereas all other genomes examined here had zero to two
271 copies.
272
273 A 245 Kb rearrangement akin to a minichromosome in L. shawi M8408
274 We discovered a putative minichromosome or amplification at the 3’ end of L. shawi M8408
275 chromosome 34 based on elevated coverage across a pair of inverted repeats spanning 245 Kb
276 (Figure 3A). This locus spanned at least bases 1,840,001 to 1,936,232 (the end) of L.
277 braziliensis M2904 chromosome 34 (Figure S8, Table S10). It was orthologous to a known 100
278 Kb amplification on L. panamensis PSC-1 chromosome 34 that was predicted to produce a
279 minichromosome when amplified, and contained the frequently amplified LD1 (Leishmania
280 DNA 1) region [66]. In contrast to the L. panamensis PSC-1 minichromosome, the L. shawi
281 M8408 amplification was ~30 Kb longer and closer in length to the L. braziliensis M2903 245
282 Kb minichromosome [67].
283
284 A 45 Kb locus was amplified in most Viannia genomes
285 A 45 Kb amplification on chromosome 34 spanning a gene encoding a structural maintenance
286 of chromosome (SMC) family protein and ten hypothetical genes had between two and four
287 copies in all samples except L. lainsoni M6426 (Figure 3A, Table S10). Using the L.
288 guyanensis gene annotation, putative functions were assigned to five of the ten hypothetical
289 genes. This duplication spanned chromosomal location 1.32-1.35 Mb in the L. braziliensis
290 M2904 reference and had two additional hypothetical genes in L. naiffi LnCL223
291 (LnCL223_343280 and LnCL223_343290, Figure 43B).
292
293
294 Genes exclusive to Viannia genomes
295 7,961 (96.7%) of the 8,230 genes annotated for L. guyanensis LgCL085 were assigned to 7,381
296 OGs, 7,893 (97.4%) of the 8,104 L. naiffi LnCL223 genes to 7,324 OGs, and 7,692 (99.3%) of
297 the L. panamensis PSC-1 7,748 to 7,245 OGs. A total of 6,835 of these OGs were shared with
298 nine species from the Leishmania, Sauroleishmania and Viannia subgenera: L. (L.) major, L.
299 (L.) mexicana, L. (L.) donovani (infantum), L. (V.) guyanensis, L. (V.) naiffi, L. (V.)
300 braziliensis, L. (V.) panamensis, L. (S.) adleri, L. (S.) tarentolae (Table S11).
301
302 We identified 22 OGs exclusive to Viannia (Table S12): three OGs contained the RNAi
303 pathway genes (DCL1, DCL2, RIF4). Another OG was the telomere-associated mobile
304 elements (TATE) DNA transposons (OG5_132061), a dynamic feature of Viannia genomes
305 [51] (Supplementary Results). Four OGs encoded a diacylglycerol kinase-like protein
306 (OG5_133291), a nucleoside transporter (OG5_134097), a beta tubulin / amastin
307 (OG5_183241), and a /zinc transporter (OG5_214682). The remaining 14 OGs contained
308 hypothetical genes.
309
310 A NADH-dependent fumarate reductase gene (OG5_128620) was amplified in the Viannia
311 examined here: L. guyanensis LgCL085 had 14 copies, L. naiffi LnCL223 had 16, L.
312 panamensis PSC-1 had 16, L. peruviana PAB4377 had 23, L. peruviana LEM1537 had 14, and
313 braziliensis M2904 had 12. This contrasted with the Leishmania and Sauroleishmania
314 subgenera for which three to four copies had been reported for L. infantum, L. mexicana, L.
315 major, L. adleri and L. tarentolae [68,69]. This gene has been implicated in enabling parasites
316 to resist oxidative stress and potentially aiding persistence, drug resistance and metastasis
6|Page
317 [70,71].
318
319 Few species-specific genes in L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L. naiffi LnCL223
320 Four genes from four OGs unique to L. naiffi LnCL223 were identified compared to other
321 Leishmania (Table S13). Of these four, hypothetical genes LnCL223_312570 and
322 LnCL223_292920 had orthologs in T. brucei and T. vivax, respectively. The LnCL223_341350
323 protein product had 44-45% sequence identity with a Leptomonas transferase family protein,
324 and LnCL223_352070 was a methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (OG5_128744), but had no
325 orthologs in the other eight Leishmania or five Trypanosoma species investigated here. L.
326 guyanensis LgCL085 had 31 unique genes in 30 OGs, 25 of which were on unplaced contigs.
327 Four of the six chromosomal genes were also in Trypanosoma genomes, encoding two
328 hypothetical proteins (a tuzin and a poly ADP-ribose glycohydrolase). 28 of the 31 had
329 orthologs in eukaryotes, of which three had orthologs in the free-living freshwater ciliate
330 protozoan Tetrahymena thermophile (Table S14) [72].
331
332 L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L. naiffi LnCL223 had over 300 gene arrays
333 Gene arrays are genes in the same OG with more than two haploid gene copies: they can be cis
334 or trans. There were 327 gene arrays on L. naiffi LnCL223 (Table S15), 334 on L. guyanensis
335 LgCL085 (Table S16) and 255 on the control L. braziliensis M2904 (Table S17) - half the
336 arrays on each genome had two copies of each gene. 22 of the L. guyanensis, 18 of the L. naiffi
337 LnCL223 and 15 of the control L. braziliensis gene arrays contained 10+ haploid gene copies
338 (Table 3). The L. panamensis PSC-1 genome had ~400 tandem arrays, of which 71% had more
339 than two copies. The L. braziliensis M2904 genome had 615 arrays corresponding to 763 OGs
340 in OrthoMCL v5. Thus, the control genome underestimated the number of gene arrays due to
341 either gene absence or incomplete assembly, indicating that the number of arrays on L. naiffi
342 LnCL223 and L. guyanensis LgCL085 was underestimated.
343
344 The most expanded array on L. guyanensis LgCL085 contained TATE DNA transposons
345 (OG5_132061) with 50 haploid gene copies (Table 3) compared with 11 on L. naiffi LnCL223,
346 21 on the L. braziliensis control and 16 on L. panamensis PSC-1. The L. braziliensis M2904
347 assembly had 40 TATE DNA transposons, but only two were annotated on the control here,
348 illustrating that more accurate estimates of copy number may be possible.
349
350 L. naiffi LnCL223 had the highest haploid gene copy number of the M8 family metalloprotease
351 leishmanolysin (GP63) array (OG5_126749) with 56 haploid gene copies, compared to 33 in L.
352 guyanensis LgCL085, 28 in L. panamensis PSC-1 and 31 in L. braziliensis M2904. This was
353 the sole protease-related OG amplified in all three species (Table S23). This family was not
354 expanded in L. peruviana LEM1537 or PAB4377. This was consistent with previous work on
355 L. guyanensis leishmanolysin [73] indicating it is a highly expressed virulence factor in
356 promastigotes [74] affecting the survival during the initial stages of infection [74-77].
357 Sauroleishmania genomes also had high array copy numbers: 37 for L. adleri [69] and 84 for
358 L. tarentolae (Table S12). Leishmania subgenus genomes had lower copy numbers, with 13 for
359 L. mexicana, 15 for L. infantum and five for L. major (OG4_10176 for L. braziliensis M2904,
360 L. mexicana, L. infantum and L. major).
361
362 A tuzin gene array (OG5_173452) had higher haploid copy numbers on L. guyanensis
363 LgCL085 (19) and L. panamensis PSC-1 (22) compared with the two copies in L. naiffi, L.
364 mexicana, L. infantum, L. major, L. braziliensis, L. adleri and L. tarentolae. Tuzins are
365 conserved transmembrane proteins in Trypanosoma and Leishmania associated with surface
366 glycoprotein expression [78]. They are often contiguous with d-amastin genes, whose products
367 are abundant cell surface transmembrane glycoproteins potentially involved in the infection or
368 survival within macrophages. They are absent in Crithidia and Leptomonas species, who lack a
7|Page
369 vertebrate host stage [78]. Tuzins may play a role in pathogenesis [79], which may be related to
370 MCL leishmaniasis caused by L. guyanensis.
371
372 Discussion
373
374 L. (Viannia) guyanensis and L. (V.) naiffi draft reference genomes
375 We assembled high-quality reference genomes for two isolates, L. (Viannia) guyanensis
376 LgCL085 and L. (VianniaV.) naiffi LnCL223, from short read sequence libraries to illuminate
377 genomic diversity in the Viannia subgenus and extend previous work [52]. This process
378 combined the de novo assembly with a reference-guided approach using the published genome
379 of L. braziliensis M2904 to assemble the L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L. naiffi LnCL223 into
380 35 chromosomes each (Table 2). An essential feature of this process was to identify and
381 remove contamination in the L. guyanensis and L. braziliensis M2904 libraries and to trim low-
382 quality bases in L. naiffi LnCL223 to ensure that the reads used were informative and free of
383 exogenous impurities. A second screen for contamination in unassigned contigs also removed
384 several L. guyanensis LgCL085 contigs, which improved subsequent annotation and gene copy
385 number estimates.
386
387 Genomes assembled from short reads capture aneuploidy and nearly all genes
388 Our strategy was tested by applying the same protocol to the L. braziliensis M2904 short read
389 library, which acted as a positive control and quantified the precision of the final output. This
390 facilitated the detection of structural variation or annotation problems, chiefly: underestimated
391 copy numbers at certain genes and the incorrect assembly of some loci that were fixed
392 manually. The resulting genomes were largely complete: for comparison, the control L.
393 braziliensis M2904 genome had only four homozygous SNPs, 97.2% of the protein coding
394 genes of the reference (231 were missing) and 70 additional genes missed in the reference
395 sequence. These findings highlight scope to resolve Leishmania chromosomal architecture
396 more accurately, particularly at repetitive regions and gene arrays, using longer sequencing
397 reads and hybrid assembly approaches.
398
399 We showed that the majority of Viannia were diploid and had 35 chromosomes. Aneuploidy
400 was evident for L. guyanensis LgCL085, L. guyanensis M4147, L. naiffi LnCL223, L. naiffi
401 M5533, L. lainsoni M6426, L. panamensis WR120 and L. shawi M8408 as anticipated [80].
402 This was verified using read depth allele frequency distributions of reads mapped to L.
403 braziliensis M2904 and to their own assemblies.
404
405 The L. guyanensis LgCL085 genome had more protein coding genes (8,230) than L. naiffi
406 LnCL223 (8,104). These numbers were similar to those for , and both rates were like those of
407 L. panamensis PSC-1 (7,748) [51] and L. braziliensis M2904 (8,357) [48]. The vast majority of
408 protein coding gene models were computationally transferred [81] from the L. braziliensis
409 M2904 reference with perfect matching, and were which was verified and improved manually.
410 Both the L. guyanensis and L. naiffi reference genomes contained unassigned bin contigs, and
411 chromosomal regions homologous to multiple chromosomal loci or containing partially
412 collapsed gene arrays. 90 (L. naiffi) and 92 (L. guyanensis) collapsed gene arrays were
413 identified where haploid gene copy numbers were at least twice the assembled copy number
414 when the reads were mapped to the assembled gene arraygenomes.
415
416 A better resolution of the Viannia species complexes
417 This study illustrated that high-throughput sequencing approaches, alignment methods and
418 annotation tools can improve the accuracy of Leishmania gene copy number estimates, gene
419 model detailsorganistion, and genome structure resolution. This yielded insights into features
420 differentiating the isolates examined here, including a variable-length 45 Kb duplication on
421 chromosome 34 of most Viannia, variable gene repertoires across Viannia species, and a
8|Page
422 potential minichromosome derived from the 3’ end of L. shawi M8408 chromosome 34.
423 Further work is required to investigate L. utingensis and L. lindenbergi as well asand other
424 potential distinct lineages [82]. Longer DNA reads would also resolve repetitive regions and
425 gene arrays more accurately.
426
427 Both single-gene and large-scale copy number variations (CNVs) were tolerated by all
428 Leishmania genomes. Leishmania genomes have extensive conservation of gene content with
429 few species-specific genes [45,48]: here, only 31 L. guyanensis LgCL085 and four L. naiffi
430 LnCL223 species-specific genes were found. These four genes unique to L. naiffi LnCL223, its
431 leishmanolysin hyper-amplification, the 31 genes only in L. guyanensis LgCL085 and its tuzin
432 arrays all represent potential targets for improving species-specific typing and better disease
433 surveillance. This is important because infections by the Viannia are spread by many hosts and
434 all sources of infections need to be addressed. Immunological screening of anti-Leishmania
435 antibodies could be enhanced by genetic testing to identify infections from non-endemic or
436 rarer sources like L. naiffi, which has longer parasite survival rates in macrophages in vitro
437 [83].
438
439 MLSA of 100 Viannia isolates across four genes and genome-wide diversity inferred from
440 mapped reads indicated that L. guyanensis LgCL085 was closest to L. panamensis PSC-1
441 within the L. guyanensis species complex, but was assigned the L. guyanensis classification
442 because L. guyanensis, L. panamensis and L. shawi were a monophyletic species complex as
443 shown by MLSA [56], MLMT [64], hsp70 [65], internal transcribed spacer (ITS) [84,85],
444 MLEE [86] and RAPD data [87]. Further typing of a more extensive L. guyanensis, L.
445 panamensis and L. shawi isolate set might clarify if these are distinct species or a single genetic
446 group.
447
448 More precise genetic screening of Viannia isolates is necessary to trace hybridisation between
449 species. Infection of humans, dogs and Lu. ovallesi with L. guyanensis/L. braziliensis hybrids
450 was reported in Venezuela [40-41]. A L. shawi/L. guyanensis hybrid causing CL was detected
451 in Amazonian Brazil [42], and L. naiffi has produced viable progeny with L. lainsoni [43] and
452 L. braziliensis (Elisa Cupolillo, unpublished data). There is extensive evidence of interbreeding
453 among L. braziliensis complex isolates, including more virulent L. braziliensis/L. peruviana
454 hybrids with higher survival rates within hosts in vitro [44].
455
456
457 Conclusion
458 This study highlighted the utility of genome sequencing for the identification, characterisation
459 and comparison of Leishmania species. We demonstrated that short reads were sufficient for
460 assembly of most Leishmania genomes so that SNP, chromosome copy number, structural and
461 somy changes can be investigated comprehensively. The L. (Viannia) guyanensis naiffi and L.
462 (V.) guyanensis naiffi genomes represent a further advance in refining the taxonomical
463 complexity of the Viannia by illustrating their genomic characteristics and the extent to which
464 these are shared across Viannia species, which will assist examining the extent to which they
465 can hybridise. This improved understanding of Leishmania genomes should be used to explore
466 the complex epidemiology of CL and MCL and linking that to nuanced pathologies in the
467 Americas and the roles of non-human reservoirs and sand flies in these processes. Future work
468 could tackle transmission, drug resistance and pathogenesis in the Viannia by applying long-
469 read high-throughput sequencing to examine broader sets of isolates, their genetic diversity,
470 contributions to microbiome variation, and control of transcriptional dosage at gene
471 amplifications.
472
473 Methods
474
9|Page
475 L. guyanensis and L. naiffi whole genome sequencing
476 Extracted DNA for L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L. naiffi LnCL223 was received from Charité
477 University Medicine (Berlin) at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute on 6th Feb 2012. Paired-
478 end 100 bp read Illumina HiSeq 2000 libraries were prepared for both during which L.
479 guyanensis required 12 cycles of PCR. The DNA was sequenced (run 7841_5#12) on the 15th
480 (L. guyanensis, run 7841_5#12) and 23rd (L. naiffi, run 7909_7#9) March 2012. The library
481 preparation, sequencing and read quality verification was conducted as outlined previously
482 [69]. The resulting L. guyanensis library contained 15,272,969 reads with a median insert size
483 of 327.0 (NCBI accession ERX180458) and the L. naiffi one had 8,131,246 reads with a
484 median insert size of 335.4 (ERX180449).
485
486 Viannia comparative genome, annotation and proteome files
487 The L. braziliensis reference genome (MHOM/BR/1975/M2904) was a positive control whose
488 short reads were examined using the same methods. It was originally sequenced using an
489 Illumina Genome Analyzer II [48] yielding 26,007,384 76 bp paired-end reads with a median
490 insert size of 244.1 bp (ERX005631). Protein sequences were retrieved from the EMBL files
491 using Artemis [88]. Two L. panamensis genomes, two L. peruviana genome assemblies and
492 five 100 bp paired-end Illumina HiSeq 2000 read libraries of other Viannia isolates [53] were
493 used for comparison (Table 1). We included the genomes of L. panamensis
494 MHOM/PA/1994/PSC-1, L. peruviana PAB-4377 and LEM1537 (MHOM/PE/1984/LC39),
495 and the 100 bp Illumina HiSeq 2000 paired-end reads for each L. peruviana PAB-4377
496 (16,117,316 reads) and L. peruviana LEM1537 (9,378,317 reads).
497
498 Library quality control, contaminant removal and screening
499 Figure S9 presents an overview of the bioinformatic steps used in this paper. Quality control of
500 the L. guyanensis LgCL085, L. naiffi LnCL223, L. braziliensis M2904, the five Viannia
501 libraries from [53], two L. peruviana libraries and L. panamensis PSC-1 read library was
502 carried out using FastQC (www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc/). No
503 corrections were required for the other libraries. An abnormal distribution of GC content per
504 read observed as an extra GC content peak outside the normal peak for the L. braziliensis
505 M2904 and L. guyanensis reads indicated sequence contamination that was removed (Figure
506 S10). Two Illumina PCR primers in the L. braziliensis M2904 reads were removed (Table S1).
507 Further evaluation using GC content filtering and the non-redundant nucleotide database with
508 BLASTn [89] to remove contaminant sequences (Figure S10) with subsequent correction of
509 read pairing arrangements reduced the initial 52,014,768 reads to 34,592,618 properly paired
510 reads for assembly.
511
512 The M2904 reads used to assemble a control genome were used for read mapping, error
513 correction and SNP calling and so the contamination did not affect the published reference.
514 However, it did reduce the number of reads mapped as shown in [48] where only 84% of the L.
515 braziliensis M2904 short reads mapped to the L. braziliensis assembly, compared with 92% of
516 reads for L. infantum reads mapped to its own assembly, 93% of L. major reads mapped to its
517 own assembly, and 97% of L. mexicana reads mapped to its own assembly.
518
519 The 8,131,246 100 bp paired-end L. naiffi LnCL223 reads and 15,272,969 100 bp paired-end L.
520 guyanensis LgCL085 reads were filtered (Table S1) in the same manner using BLASTn and
521 the smoothness of the GC content distribution to remove putative contaminants. Low quality
522 bases were trimmed at the 3’ end of L. naiffi LnCL223 reads to remove bases with a phred base
523 quality < 30 using Trimmomatic [90] (Table S1, Figure S11). This resulted in 13,033,846
524 paired-end L. guyanensis LgCL085 sequences and 6,989,814 paired-end L. naiffi LnCL223
525 sequences – 85% and 86% of the initial reads, respectively (Table S1).
526
10 | P a g e
527 Genome evaluation, assembly and optimisation
528 Processed reads were assembled into contigs using Velvet v1.2.09 and assemblies for all odd
529 numbered k-mer lengths from 21 to 75 were evaluated. The expected k-mer coverage was
530 determined for each assembly using the mode of a k-mer coverage histogram from the velvet-
531 estimate-exp_cov.pl script in Velvet to maximise resolution of repetitive and unique regions
532 [57]. This suggested optimal k-mers of 61 for L. guyanensis LgCL085 and 43 for both L. naiffi
533 LnCL223 and L. braziliensis, which produced assemblies with the highest N50 lengths. Each
534 assembly was assembled with this expected coverage, and contigs were removed if their
535 average k-mer coverage was less than half the expected coverage levels. An expected coverage
536 of 16 and a coverage cutoff of 8 was applied to L. naiffi reads, an expected coverage of 19 and
537 coverage cutoff of 8.5 to L. guyanensis LgCL085, and an expected coverage of 28 and
538 coverage cutoff of 14 to L. braziliensis.
539
540 The assembly with the highest N50 for each was scaffolded using SSPACE [58]. In the initial
541 assemblies, 76% of gaps in scaffolds (3,592/4,754) were closed in for L. guyanensis LgCL085,
542 63% (4,096/6,530) for L. naiffi LnCL223, and 67% (4,834/8,786) for L. braziliensis using
543 Gapfiller [58]. Erroneous bases were corrected by mapping reads to the references with iCORN
544 [91] (Figure S12). Misassemblies detected and broken using REAPR [60] were aligned to the
545 L. braziliensis M2904 reference (excluding the bin chromosome 00). Scaffolds were evaluated
546 and broken at putative misassemblies detected from the fragment coverage distribution (FCD)
547 error and regions with low coverage when the reads were mapped to both broken and unbroken
548 options. Additionally, the L. braziliensis broken and unbroken scaffolds were used to verify
549 that removing misassemblies prior to (but not after) the contiguation of scaffolds resulted in
550 more accurate assembled chromosomes. Mis-assembled regions without a gap were replaced
551 with N bases. REAPR corrected 444 errors in L. naiffi LnCL223, of which 59 were caused by
552 low fragment coverage, 206 in L. guyanensis LgCL085 (eight deue to low fragment coverage),
553 and 232 in the L. braziliensis control (57 caused by low fragment coverage). Each assembly
554 step improved the corrected N50 and percentage of error free bases (EFB%) assessed using
555 REAPR (Table S18), with the sole exception of L. braziliensis control at the error-correction
556 stage, likely due to its higher heterozygosity. The EFB% was the fraction of the total bases
557 whose reads had no mismatches, matches the expected insert length, had a small FCD error and
558 at least five read pairs oriented in the expected direction.
559
560 Gaps > 100 bp were reduced to 100 bp. 200 bp at the edge of each unplaced scaffold was
561 aligned with the 200 bp flanking all pseudo-chromosome gaps using BLASTn to verify that no
562 further gaps could be closed using unplaced scaffolds. Unplaced bin scaffolds < 1 Kb were
563 discarded, and the resulting assemblies were visualised and compared to L. braziliensis using
564 the Artemis Comparison Tool (ACT) [92]. L. guyanensis LgCL085 bin sequences with
565 BLASTn E-values < 1e-05 and percentage identities > 40% to non-Leishmania species in non-
566 redundant nucleotide database were removed as possible contaminants. The final scaffolds
567 were contiguated using the L. braziliensis reference with ABACAS [59], unincorporated
568 segments were labelled as unassigned “bin” contigs, and kDNA contigs were annotated as well
569 (Supplementary Methods).
570
571 Phylogenomic MLSA characterisation
572 A MLSA (multi-locus sequence analysis) approach was adopted to verify the Leishmania
573 species identity using for four housekeeping genes: glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase
574 (G6PD), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGD), mannose phosphate isomerase (MPI)
575 and isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICD). Orthologs from other genomes and assemblies were
576 obtained using BLASTn alignment with thresholds of E-value < 0.05 and percentage identity >
577 70%. L. peruviana LEM-1537 genome had gaps at the MPI and 6PGD genes and was
578 excluded. The four housekeeping genes spanning 2,902 sites were concatenated in the order
11 | P a g e
579 G6PD, 6PGD, MPI and ICD, and aligned using Clustal Omega v1.1 to create a Neighbour-Net
580 network of uncorrected p-distances using SplitsTree v4.13.1.
581
582 Genome annotation and manual curation
583 Annotation of the L. guyanensis LgCL085, L. naiffi LnCL223 and L. braziliensis control
584 genomes was completed using Companion [80] using L. braziliensis M2904 as the reference as
585 outlined previously [69], including manual checking and correction of gene models. A control
586 run with the L. braziliensis M2904 reference genome using itself as a reference was performed.
587 In L. naiffi LnCL223, 13 genes and one pseudogene were removed because they overlapped
588 existing superior gene models that had improved sequence identity with L. braziliensis M2904
589 orthologs. 46 of the protein coding genes were also manually added. 34 of the protein coding
590 genes on L. guyanensis LgCL085 were manually added and one protein coding gene was
591 removed. 269 gene models on L. naiffi LnCL223 and 198 on L. guyanensis with multiple joins
592 mainly caused by the presence of short gaps were corrected by extending the gene model
593 across the gap where the gap length was known (< 100 bp). If the gap length was unknown (>
594 100 bp), the gene was extended to the nearest start or stop codon.
595
596 Measuring ploidy, chromosome copy numbers and CNVs
597 By mapping the reads with SMALT v5.7 (www.sanger.ac.uk/resources/software/smalt/) to L.
598 braziliensis M2904, the coverage at each site was determined to quantify the chromosome copy
599 numbers and RDAF distributions at heterozygous SNPs as per previous work [69]. The RDAF
600 distribution was based on the coverage level of each allele at heterozygous SNPs and this
601 feature differed across chromosomes for each isolate (Supplementary Results). The median
602 coverage per chromosome was obtained, and the median of the 35 values combined with the
603 RDAF distribution mode approximating 50% indicated that all isolates examined here were
604 mostly diploid (except the triploid L. braziliensis M2904). These were visualised with R
605 packages ggplot2 and gridExtra.
606
607 After PCR duplicate removal, the mapped reads were used to detect CNVs across genes or
608 within non-overlapping 10 Kb blocks for all chromosomes and bin contigs using the median
609 depth values normalised by the median of the chromosome (or bin contig). Loci with a copy
610 number > 2 were analysed for L. naiffi LnCL223, L. guyanensis LgCL085 and the L.
611 braziliensis control using their reads mapped to their own assembly. This was also repeated for
612 reads mapped to the L. braziliensis M2904 reference for L. guyanensis M4147, L. naiffi
613 M5533, L. shawi M8408, L. lainsoni M6426, L. panamensis WR120, L. panamensis PSC-1, L.
614 peruviana LEM1537 and L. peruviana PAB-4377. L. panamensis PSC-1 reads were mapped to
615 its own reference genome to verify that we could find previously identified amplified loci, and
616 we mapped L. panamensis WR120 to it so that CNVs shared by both L. panamensis could be
617 obtained. The BAM files of L. naiffi LnCL223, L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L. braziliensis
618 M2904 reads mapped to its own assembly were visualised in Artemis to confirm and refine the
619 boundaries of amplified loci.
620
621 Identification of orthologous groups and gene arrays
622 Protein coding genes from L. guyanensis LgCL085, L. naiffi LnCL223 and the L. braziliensis
623 M2904 control genome were produced from the EMBL files for each genome and these were
624 submitted to the ORTHOMCLdb v5 webserver [93] to identify orthologous groups (OGs).
625 11,825 OGs with associated gene IDs in at least one of four Leishmania species (L. major
626 strain Friedlin, L. infantum, L. braziliensis and L. mexicana) or five Trypanosoma species (T.
627 vivax, T. brucei, T. brucei gambiense, T. cruzi strain CL Brener and T. congolense) were
628 retrieved from the OrthoMCL database and compared with OGs for each genome. The copy
629 number of each OG was estimated by summing the haploid copy number of each gene in the
630 OG. Gene arrays in each genome were identified by finding all OGs with haploid copy number
631 > 2. Large arrays (> 10 gene copies) were examined and arrays with unassembled gene copies
12 | P a g e
632 were identified by finding those with haploid gene copy number at least twice the assembled
633 gene number.
634
635 SNP screening and detection
636 The filtered reads with Smalt as described mapped above were used for calling SNPs using
637 Samtools Pileup v0.1.11 and Mpileup v0.1.18 and quality-filtered with Vcftools v0.1.12b and
638 Bcftools v0.1.17-dev as previously [69] such that SNPs called by both Pileup and Mpileup
639 post-screening were considered valid. These SNPs all had: base quality >25; mapping quality
640 >30; SNP quality >30; a non-reference RDAF >0.1; forward-reverse read coverage ratios >0.1
641 and <0.9; five or more reads; 2+ forward reads, and 2+ reverse reads. Low quality and
642 repetitive regions of the assemblies were identified and variants in these regions were masked
643 as outlined elsewhere [69]. SNPs were classed as homozygous for an alternative allele to the
644 reference if their RDAF > 0.85 and heterozygous if it was > 0.1 and < 0.85.
645
646 The high level of nucleotide accuracy of the assembled genomes was indicated by the low rate
647 of homozygous SNPs when the reads mapped to its own assembly (50 for L. naiffi LnCL223,
648 12 for L. guyanensis LgCL085, 68 for the L. braziliensis reference, and four for the L.
649 braziliensis control). Likewise, the numbers and alleles of heterozygous SNPs for the L.
650 braziliensis control (25,474) matched that for the reference (25,975), suggesting that the 705
651 (L. naiffi LnCL223) and 14,739 (L. guyanensis LgCL085) heterozygous SNPs were accurate.
652 The difference in homozygous and heterozygous SNP rates for L. braziliensis here versus the
653 original 2011 study [48] were likely due to differing methodology. The genetic divergence of
654 L. naiffi LnCL223 and L. guyanensis LgCL085 compared to L. braziliensis was quantified
655 using the density of heterozygous and homozygous SNPs per 10 Kb non-overlapping window
656 on each chromosome, visualised using Bedtools.
657
658 Availability of materials andData dataAccessbility
659 The BioProject ID is PRJEB20208 for L. guyanensis LgCL085 and PRJEB20209 for L. naiffi
660 LnCL223. The DNA reads are available at the NCBI Short Read Archive (SRA) and and
661 European Nucleotide Archive at ERX180458 for L. guyanensis LgCL085 and ERX180449 for
662 L. naiffi LnCL223 (these are associated with BioProject PRJEB2600). The consensus genome
663 sequence FASTA files are on Figshare at 10.6084/m9.figshare.5693290 for L. guyanensis
664 LgCL085 and 10.6084/m9.figshare.5693272 for L. naiffi LnCL223. The chromosome and bin
665 contig annotation EMBL files are at 10.6084/m9.figshare.5693284 for L. guyanensis LgCL085
666 and 10.6084/m9.figshare.5693278 for L. naiffi LnCL223. The Supplementary Tables are on
667 Figshare at 10.6084/m9.figshare.5697064. For ease of reader access, the above genome
668 sequence and annotation files, Supplementary Tables and Supplementary Data are also
669 available on the Dryad Digital Repository at: https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.4bm23.
670
671 Acknowledgements
672 The authors thank: Matthew Berriman and members of the WTSI DNA pipelines team for
673 generating the two sequence libraries; Elisa Cupolillo (Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Brazil) for
674 discussions and comments on the manuscript; Katrin Kuhls (Technical University of Applied
675 Sciences Wildau), Cathal Seoighe (NUI Galway), Hideo Imamura and Jean-Claude Dujardin
676 (both Institute of Tropical Medicine Antwerp) for help; Anne Stone and Kelly Harkins (both
677 Arizona State University) for releasing valuable sequence read data; and the
678 DJEI/DES/SFI/HEA Irish Centre for High-End Computing (ICHEC) for computational
679 facilities.
680
681 Funding
682 The authors acknowledge financial support from the NUI Galway Ph.D. Fellowship scheme
683 (S.C.) and the Wellcome Trust core funding of the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute (WTSI,
684 grant 098051) (J.A.C. and M.S.).
13 | P a g e
685
686 Contributions
687 S.C. completed the genome assembly, comparative genomics, phylogenetic analysis, mutation
688 investigation, helped design the study and wrote the main manuscript text. S.C., A.S.T. and
689 E.F. completed the genome annotation. M.S. completed genome sequencing. G.S. helped
690 design the study and wrote the main manuscript text. J.A.C. helped design the study and wrote
691 the main manuscript text. T.D. co-ordinated and designed the study and wrote the main
692 manuscript text. All authors gave approval for publication.
693
694 Competing interests
695 The authors have no competing interests.
696
14 | P a g e
697
15 | P a g e
698 Figure 1: Middle: A neighbor-Net network of the uncorrected p-distances from concatenated
699 2,902-base sequences from four housekeeping genes for 102 Viannia samples. The genes
700 were glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase
701 (6PGD), mannose phosphate isomerase (MPI) and isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICD). L. naiffi
702 LnCL223 (cyan) is “New_L_naiffi_Reference” and is related to M5533 (IOC_L1365). L.
703 guyanensis LgCL085 (blue) is “New_L_guyanensis_Reference” and is related to the L. shawi
704 M8408 (IOC_L1545) assembly and the L. panamensis PSC-1 genome, but less so to L.
705 guyanensis M4147 (iz34). The L. braziliensis M2904 reference and control are
706 “M2904_Reference” and “M2904_Control”, proximal to L. peruviana PAB-4377. L. lainsoni
707 M6426 (IOC_L1023) (green), L. utingensis (orange) and L. lindenbergi (pink) are shown.
708 The isolate names and detail for each species complex is shown by insets in red (L.
709 braziliensis), dark blue (L. guyanensis) and light blue (L. naiffi). For detailed viewing, the
710 nexus file can be downloaded at https://figshare.com/s/eecf1c6b42ac4deb6acc and high-
711 resolution PDF at https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.5687329.
16 | P a g e
712
713
714 Figure 2: Normalised chromosome copy numbers of L. naiffi LnCL223 reads mapped to its
715 assembly, L. guyanensis LgCL085 reads mapped to its assembly, and L. guyanensis M4147,
716 L. lainsoni M6426, L. naiffi M5533, L. panamensis WR120 and L. shawi M8408 reads
717 mapped to L. braziliensis M2904. Dashed lines indicate disomic, trisomic and tetrasomic
718 states. Results for L. panamensis PSC-1 and L. peruviana PAB-4377 were previously
719 published and are in Figure S3.
17 | P a g e
720 Formatted: Font: Times New Roman, 12 pt, Font color:
721 Figure 3A: Median Read depth coverage (blue, y-axis) Text 1
722 in 10 Kb blocks for reads mapped to L. braziliensis Formatted: Font: Times New Roman, 12 pt, Font color:
723 M2904 chromosome 34 (x-axis) for nine Viannia Text 1
724 isolates. The black horizontal line is the median
725 chromosome 34 coverage. L. panamensis PSC-1 (first
726 plot showntop left) and L. shawi M8408 (secondmiddle
727 left) showed a 3’ jump in coverage (green) consistent
728 with an amplification of inverted repeats that could form
729 a linear minichromosome. In addition, this pair shared a
730 45 Kb amplification (pink) also found in the L.
731 braziliensis M2904 control (third plot shownbottom left),
732 L. naiffi M5533 (fourthtop centre), L. panamensis
733 WR120 (fifthmiddle centre), L. peruviana LEM1537
734 (sixthbottom centre), L. peruviana PAB-4377
735 (seventhtop right) and L. guyanensis M4147
736 (eighthmiddle right). This was absent in L. lainsoni
737 M6426 (ninthbottom right).
738 Formatted: Font: Times New Roman, 12 pt, Font color:
739 Text 1
740 Formatted: Caption, Don't add space between
741 paragraphs of the same style, No widow/orphan
742 Formatted: Font: (Default) Times New Roman, 12 pt,
743 Font color: Text 1
Formatted: Don't add space between paragraphs of
the same style
18 | P a g e
Formatted: Font color: Text 1
Formatted: Indent: Left: 0 pi, Don't add space
between paragraphs of the same style
Formatted: Font color: Text 1
Formatted: Font: (Default) Times New Roman, 12 pt,
Font color: Text 1
Formatted: Don't add space between paragraphs of
the same style
744
745 Formatted: Font color: Text 1
746 Figure 4: 3B: Median coverage Formatted: Font: Times New Roman, 12 pt, Font color:
747 (blue) in 10 Kb blocks for L. Text 1
748 guyanensis LgCL085 reads mapped Formatted: Caption, Don't add space between
749 to its own assembled chromosome 34 paragraphs of the same style, No widow/orphan
750 (top) and L. naiffi LnCL223 reads Formatted: Font: Times New Roman, 12 pt, Font color:
751 mapped to its own assembled Text 1
752 chromosome 34 (bottom). The black Formatted: Font: Not Bold
753 horizontal line is the median
754 chromosome 34 read coverage. There Formatted: Font: Not Bold
755 was a 45 Kb amplification to three Formatted: Font: Not Bold, Not Italic
756 copies (pink) in L. guyanensis Formatted: Font: Not Bold
757 LgCL085 (at chromosome 34 bases
Formatted: Font: Not Bold
758 1,195,232-1,239,355, 44,123 bases in
759 length). Similarly, Tthere was no Formatted: Font: Not Bold
760 evidence of a 3’ amplification, but Formatted: Font: Not Bold
761 there was a 45 Kb four-fold Formatted: Font: Not Bold
762 amplification (pink) spanned 44,791in
Formatted: Font: Not Bold
763 bases in L. naiffi LnCL223 with four
764 copies (at chromosome 34 bases Formatted: Font: Not Bold
765 :1,206,328-1,251,119, 44,791 bases in length). and 44,123 bases in L. guyanensis LgCL085 Formatted: Font: Times New Roman, 12 pt, Font color:
766 with three copies (at chr34: 1,195,232-1,239,355). The amplification latter encompassedhad Text 1
767 two additional hypothetical genes in L. naiffi LnCL223relative to L. guyanensis LgCL085. Formatted: Font: Not Bold
768 Neither had evidence of a 3’ minichromosome.
Formatted: Font: Not Bold
769
770 Formatted: Font: Not Bold
Formatted: Font: Times New Roman, 12 pt, Font color:
Text 1
Formatted: Font: +Body (Calibri), 11 pt, Bold, Font
color: Auto
Formatted: Normal, Indent: Left: 0 pi, Add space
between paragraphs of the same style, Widow/Orphan
control
19 | P a g e
771 Tables Formatted: Centered
772
Data Number and
Species Source Name or WHO Number SRA* Reference Formatted Table
Type length of reads
15,272,969
L. guyanensis SRA Reads LgCL085 ERX180458 (100 bp paired- This study
end)
8,131,246 (100
L. naiffi SRA Reads LnCL223 ERX180449 This study
bp paired-end)
Sanger Genome ERX005631 26,007,384 (76 Rogers et al 2011
L. braziliensis MHOM/BR/1975/M2904
FTP site & Reads (LbrM2904 v3) bp paired-end) [48]
6,225,035 (100 Harkins et al
L. guyanensis SRA Reads MHOM/BR/1975/M4147 SRX767379
bp paired-end) 2016 [53]
4,630,952 (100 Harkins et al
L. lainsoni SRA Reads MHOM/BR/1981/M6426 SRX764333
bp paired-end) 2016 [53]
9,646,461 (100 Harkins et al
L. naiffi SRA Reads MDAS/BR/1979/M5533 SRX764332
bp paired-end) 2016 [53]
SRX681913;
Genbank Genome 5,875,837 (100 Llanes et al 2015
L. panamensis MHOM/PA/1994/PSC-1 (CP009370:
& SRA & Reads bp paired-end) [51]
CP009404)
4,536,341 (100 Harkins et al
L. panamensis SRA Reads MHOM/PA/1974/WR120 SRX767384
bp paired-end) 2016 [53]
5,110,479 (100 Harkins et al
L. shawi SRA Reads MCEB/BR/1984/M8408 SRX764331
bp paired-end) 2016 [53]
ERX556165 16,117,316
Genbank Genome Valdivia et al
L. peruviana PAB-4377 (Bioproject ID: (100 bp paired
& SRA & Reads 2015 [52]
PRJEB7263) end)
ERX556164
Genbank Genome LEM1537 9,378,317 (100 Valdivia et al
L. peruviana (Bioproject ID:
& SRA & Reads (MHOM/PE/1984/LC39) bp paired end) 2015 [52]
PRJEB7263)
773
774 Table 1: Data used in this study. The World Health Organisation (WHO) numbers are
775 structured such that M is mammal, R is reptile, HOM is Homo, CAN is canine, DAS is
776 Dasypus (an armadillo), CEB is Cebus (a primate), ARV is Arvicanthis (a rodent), TAR is
777 Tarentolae and LAT is Latastia (a long-tailed lizard). The top two rows indicate the isolates
778 for L. guyanensis and L. naiffi genomes published here. * SRA stands for SRA or TriTrypDB
779 accession ID.
780
20 | P a g e
L. braziliensis L. guyanensis L. naiffi
M2904 control LgCL085 LnCL223
Initial number of contigs 13,601 10,308 14,682
Initial contig N50 (Kb) 5.1 9.6 5.7
Number of scaffolds 3,782 2,800 6,530
Scaffold N50 (Kb) 20.6 95.4 24.3
Number of gaps 919 3,352 1,557 3,853
Median read coverage 75 74 56 36
N content (%) 0.29 0.99 0.45 1.07
Chromosomes total length (bp) 31,238,104 28,985,156 28,274,008 29,179,723
Bin sequence total length (bp) 850,747 1,024,497 2,740,314 1,161,372
Total genome length (bp) 32,088,851 30,009,653 31,014,322 30,341,095
Protein coding genes 8,357 8,001 8,230 8,104
Genes on chromosomes 8,432 7,873 7,757 7,952
Genes on bin contigs 188 288 619 310
Total number of genes 8,620 8,161 8,376 8,262
781
782 Table 2: Summary of L. braziliensis reference M2904, L. braziliensis control, L. guyanensis
783 LgCL085, and L. naiffi LnCL223 genome assembly contigs, scaffolds, gaps, read coverage,
784 assembled chromosomal and contig sequence, and levels of gene annotation.
785 Formatted: Don't add space between paragraphs of
the same style
21 | P a g e
786
Genes in OG haploid
OG Formatted Table
OG copy number
ID Description B G N B G N
L. guyanensis LgCL085, L. naiffi LnCL223 and L. braziliensis M2904 control
OG5_132061 TATE DNA Transposon 2 14 3 21 50 11
OG5_126605 alpha tubulin 1 2 1 17 36 13
OG5_130729 amastin-like surface protein 8 24 20 24 26 33
OG5_126631 elongation factor 1-alpha 1 1 1 12 18 20
OG5_126703 polyubiquitin 2 2 1 21 16 43
OG5_126558 dynein heavy chain, cytosolic 14 13 14 13 13 14
pteridin transporter; folate/biopterin
OG5_129265 8 10 9 14 13 13
transporter
OG5_143904 amastin-like surface protein 5 4 6 48 12 14
lipophosphoglycan biosynthetic protein /
glucose regulated protein 94; heat shock
OG5_126623* protein 90 / ; glucose regulated protein 94; 2 2 2 11 10 12
heat shock protein 83-1; lipophosphoglycan
biosynthetic protein
L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L. naiffi LnCL223
OG5_126749 GP63 leishmanolysin 4 8 9 5 33 56
OG5_126617 receptor-type adenylate cyclase 3 5 5 5 14 13
OG5_126611 beta tubulin 1 1 2 0 14 27
OG5_128620 NADH-dependent fumarate reductase 4 3 4 2 14 16
OG5_126585 kinesin K39; hypothetical protein 7 10 10 7 12 11
OG5_126573 histone H4 1 7 4 3 11 10
L. naiffi LnCL223
OG5_173495 hypothetical protein 0 1 1 0 2 15
OG5_126568 ABC1 transporter 9 10 12 10 9 14
OG5_127342 peptidase m20/m25/m40 family protein 2 2 2 6 3 10
L. guyanensis LgCL085
OG5_173452 tuzin 2 3 1 1 19 1
OG5_145872 ATG8/AUT7/APG8/PAZ2 1 2 1 8 19 1
OG5_143922 ATP dependent DEAD-box helicase 1 2 0 6 17 0
OG5_148241 conserved hypothetical protein 1 1 1 0 14 1
OG5_137181 ATG8/AUT7/APG8/PAZ2 1 1 0 0 13 0
L. braziliensis M2904 control
heat-shock protein hsp70; glucose-regulated
OG5_126588* 4 3 3 14 7 8
protein 78
OG5_138994 tuzin 5 3 2 13 4 2
OG5_129839 phosphoglycan beta 1,3 galactosyltransferase 2 4 1 12 5 2
thimet oligopeptidase; metallo-peptidase,
OG5_127067 3 3 3 12 9 7
Clan MA(E), Family M3
L. guyanensis LgCL085 and L. braziliensis control
OG5_169610 surface antigen-like protein 1 1 0 16 11 0
OG5_127518 SLACS like gene retrotransposon element 2 3 1 18 10 1
787
Formatted: Font: 6 pt
788 Table 3: Arrays with ten or more gene copies predicted by read depth for each species. OG
789 stands for orthologous group. Genes in OG shows the number of genes associated with that
790 GO functional category. OG haploid copy number indicates the numbers of haploid gene
791 copies found in each genome: B stands for the L. braziliensis M2904 control, G for L.
792 guyanensis LgCL085, and N for L. naiffi LnCL223. *For OG5_126623 and OG5_126588,
22 | P a g e
793 the elevated copy number were due to amplificated heat shock protein (hsp) genes rather than Formatted: Font: Italic
794 the glucose regulated protein (grp) loci, a potential limitation of OG analyses. Formatted: Font: Italic
23 | P a g e
795 References
796
797 1. Pan American Health Organization. 2017 Leishmaniases: Epidemiological Report in
798 the Americas. Available at
799 http://www2.paho.org/hq/index.php?option=com_docman&task=doc_view&Itemid=2
800 70&gid=39646&lang=en
801 2. World Health Organization. 2010 Control of the leishmaniases. World Health Organ
802 Tech Rep Ser. 949, xii-xiii, 1-186, back cover.
803 3. Gramiccia M, Gradoni L. 2005 The current status of zoonotic leishmaniases and
804 approaches to disease control. Int J Parasitol. 35, 1169-80.
805 4. Killick-Kendrick R. 1999 The biology and control of phlebotomine sand flies. Clin
806 Dermatol. 17, 279-89.
807 5. Maroli M, Feliciangeli MD, Bichaud L, Charrel RN, Gradoni L. 2013 Phlebotomine
808 sandflies and the spreading of leishmaniases and other diseases of public health
809 concern. Med Vet Entomol. 27, 123-47. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2915.2012.01034.x.
810 6. Walsh JF, Molyneux DH, Birley MH. 1993 Deforestation: effects on vector-borne
811 disease. Parasitology. 106 Suppl, S55-75.
812 7. Davies CR, Reithinger R, Campbell-lendrum D, Feliciangeli D, Borges R, Rodriguez
813 N. 2000 The epidemiology and control of leishmaniasis in Andean countries. Cad.
814 Saude Pública. 16, 925–50. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1590/S0102-
815 311X2000000400013
816 8. Rotureau B. 2006 Are New World leishmaniases becoming anthroponoses? Med
817 Hypotheses. 67, 1235-41.
818 9. Lainson R, Shaw JJ. 1989 Leishmania (Viannia) naiffi sp. n., a parasite of the
819 armadillo, Dasypus novemcinctus (L.) in Amazonian Brazil. Ann. Parasitol. Hum.
820 Comp. 64, 3–9
821 10. Naiff RD, Freitas RA, Naiff MF, Arias JR, Barrett TV, Momen H, Grimaldi Júnior G.
822 1991 Epidemiological and nosological aspects of Leishmania naiffi Lainson & Shaw,
823 1989. Mem. Inst. Oswaldo Cruz 86, 317–21.
824 11. Roque AL, Jansen AM. 2014 Wild and synanthropic reservoirs of Leishmania species
825 in the Americas. Int. J. Parasitol. Parasites Wildl. 3, 251–62. doi:
826 10.1016/j.ijppaw.2014.08.004.
827 12. de Souza AAA, da Rocha Barata I, das Graças Soares Silva M, Lima JAN, Jennings
828 YLL, Ishikawa EAY, Prévot G, Ginouves M, Silveira FT, Shaw J, Dos Santos TV.
829 2017 Natural Leishmania (Viannia) infections of phlebotomines (Diptera:
830 Psychodidae) indicate classical and alternative transmission cycles of American
831 cutaneous leishmaniasis in the Guiana Shield, Brazil. Parasite. 24, 13. doi:
832 10.1051/parasite/2017016.
833 13. Arias JR, Miles MA, Naiff RD, Povoa MM, de Freitas RA, Biancardi CB, Castellon
834 EG. 1985 Flagellate infections of Brazilian sand flies (Diptera: Psychodidae):
835 isolation in vitro and biochemical identification of Endotrypanum and Leishmania.
836 Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg. 34, 1098–108.
837 14. Kato H, Gomez EA, Yamamoto Y, Calvopiña M, Guevara AG, Marco JD, Barroso
838 PA, Iwata H, Hashiguchi Y. 2008 Natural infection of Lutzomyia tortura with
839 Leishmania (Viannia) naiffi in an Amazonian area of Ecuador. Am. J. Trop. Med.
840 Hyg. 79, 438–40.
841 15. Azpurua J, De La Cruz D, Valderama A,Windsor D. 2010 Lutzomyia Sand Fly
842 Diversity and Rates of Infection by Wolbachia and an Exotic Leishmania Species on
843 Barro Colorado Island, Panama ed J G Valenzuela PLoS Negl. Trop. Dis. 4, e627.
844 16. Cássia-Pires R, Boité MC, D'Andrea PS, Herrera HM, Cupolillo E, Jansen AM,
845 Roque AL. Distinct Leishmania species infecting wild caviomorph rodents (Rodentia:
846 Hystricognathi) from Brazil. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2014 Dec 11;8(12):e3389. doi:
24 | P a g e
847 10.1371/journal.pntd.0003389.
848 17. Abba AM, Superina M. 2010 The 2009/2010 armadillo red list assessment BioOne
849 11, 135–84.
850 18. Ober HK, Degroote LW, McDonough CM, Mizell RF, Mankin RW. 2011
851 Identification of an attractant for the nine-banded armadillo, Dasypus novemcinctus
852 Wildl. Soc. Bull. 35, 421–9.
853 19. van Thiel PP, Gool TV, Kager PA, Bart A. 2010 First cases of cutaneous
854 leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania (Viannia) naiffi infection in Surinam. Am. J.
855 Trop. Med. Hyg. 82, 588–90.
856 20. Fagundes-Silva GA, Sierra Romero GA, Cupolillo E, Yamashita EP, Gomes-Silva A,
857 De Oliveira Guerra JA, Da-Cruz AM. 2015 Leishmania (Viannia) naiffi: Rare enough
858 to be neglected? Mem. Inst. Oswaldo Cruz 110, 797–800.
859 21. Lainson R, Shaw JJ, Silveira FT, Braga RR, Ishikawa EA. 1990 Cutaneous
860 leishmaniasis of man due to Leishmania (Viannia) naiffi Lainson and Shaw, 1989.
861 Ann. Parasitol. Hum. Comp. 65, 282–4.
862 22. Pratlong F, Deniau M, Darie H, Eichenlaub S, Pröll S, Garrabe E, Le Guyadec T,
863 Dedet JP. 2002 Human cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania naiffi is wide-
864 spread in South America. Ann. Trop. Med. Parasitol. 96, 781–5.
865 23. Van der Snoek EM, Lammers AM, Kortbeek LM, Roelfsema JH, Bart A, Jaspers CA.
866 2009 Spontaneous cure of American cutaneous leishmaniasis due to Leishmania naiffi
867 in two Dutch infantry soldiers. Clin Exp Dermatol. 34, e889-91. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-
868 2230.2009.03658.x.
869 24. Floch H. 1954 Leishmania tropica guyanensis n.sp. agent de la leishmaniose
870 tegumentarie de Guyanes et de l’Amerique Centralele Arch Inst Pasteur La Guyane
871 Française du Teritoire L’Inni 15, 328.
872 25. Lainson R, Shaw JJ, Povoa M. 1981 The importance of edentates (sloths and
873 anteaters) as primary reservoirs of Leishmania braziliensis guyanensis, causative
874 agent of “pianbois” in north Brazil. Trans. R. Soc. Trop. Med. Hyg. 75, 611–2.
875 26. Arias JR, Naif RD, Miles MA, de Souza AA. 1981 The opossum, Didelphis
876 marsupialis (Marsupialia: Didelphidae), as a reservoir host of Leishmania braziliensis
877 guyanensis in the Amazon Basin of Brazil. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 75, 537-41.
878 27. Dedet JP, Gay F, Chatenay G. 1989 Isolation of Leishmania species from wild
879 mammals in French Guiana. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 83, 613-5.
880 28. Quaresma PF, Rêgo FD, Botelho HA, da Silva SR, Moura Júnior AJ, Teixeira Neto
881 RG, Madeira FM, Carvalho MB, Paglia AP, Melo MN, Gontijo CM. 2011 Wild,
882 synanthropic and domestic hosts of Leishmania in an endemic area of cutaneous
883 leishmaniasis in Minas Gerais State, Brazil. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 105, 579-85.
884 29. Lainson R, Shaw JJ, Ward RD, Ready PD, Naiff RD. 1979 Leishmaniasis in brazil:
885 XIII. Isolation of leishmania from armadillos (dasypus novemcinctus), and
886 observations on the epidemiology of cutaneous leishmaniasis in north para’ state
887 Trans. R. Soc. Trop. Med. Hyg. 73, 239–42.
888 30. Quinnell RJ, Courtenay O. 2009 Transmission, reservoir hosts and control of zoonotic
889 visceral leishmaniasis. Parasitology 136, 1915–34.
890 31. Ready PD, Lainson R, Shaw JJ, Ward RD. 1986 The ecology of lutzomyia umbratilis
891 Ward & Fraiha (Diptera: Psychodidae), the major vector to man of Leishmania
892 braziliensis guyanensis in north-eastern Amazonian brazil Bull. Entomol. Res. 76, 21-
893 40. doi: https://doi.org/10.1017/S0007485300015248
894 32. Balbino VQ, Marcondes CB, Alexander B, Luna LK, Lucena MM, Mendes AC,
895 Andrade PP. 2001 First Report of Lutzomyia (Nyssomyia) umbratilis Ward & Frahia,
896 1977 outside of Amazonian Region, in Recife, State of Pernambuco, Brazil (Diptera:
897 Psychodidae: Phlebotominae). Mem. Inst. Oswaldo Cruz 96, 315–7
898 33. Young DG, Duncan MA. 1994 Guide to the identification and geographic distribution
25 | P a g e
899 of Lutzomyia sand flies in Mexico, the West Indies, Central and South America
900 (Diptera: Psychodidae). Amer Entomol Inst, Gainesville.
901 34. Rodríguez-Barraquer I, Góngora R, Prager M, Pacheco R, Montero LM, Navas A,
902 Ferro C, Miranda MC, Saravia NG. 2008 Etiologic agent of an epidemic of cutaneous
903 leishmaniasis in Tolima, Colombia Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg. 78, 276–82.
904 35. Fouque F, Gaborit P, Issaly J, Carinci R, Gantier JC, Ravel C, Dedet JP. 2007
905 Phlebotomine sand flies (Diptera: Psychodidae) associated with changing patterns in
906 the transmission of the human cutaneous leishmaniasis in French Guiana. Mem. Inst.
907 Oswaldo Cruz 102, 35–40.
908 36. Lainson R, Shaw JJ, Ready PD, Miles MA, Póvoa M. 1981 Leishmaniasis in Brazil:
909 XVI. Isolation and identification of Leishmania species from sandflies, wild mammals
910 and man in north Para State, with particular reference to L. braziliensis guyanensis
911 causative agent of "pian-bois". Trans. R. Soc. Trop. Med. Hyg. 75, 530–6.
912 37. Van der Meide WF, Jensema AJ, Akrum RA, Sabajo LO, Lai A Fat RF, Lambregts
913 L, Schallig HD, van der Paardt M, Faber WR. 2008 Epidemiology of cutaneous
914 leishmaniasis in Suriname: a study performed in 2006. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 79, 192-
915 7.
916 38. Garcia A L, Tellez T, Parrado R, Rojas E, Bermudez H, Dujardin JC. 2007
917 Epidemiological monitoring of American tegumentary leishmaniasis: molecular
918 characterization of a peridomestic transmission cycle in the Amazonian lowlands of
919 Bolivia Trans. R. Soc. Trop. Med. Hyg. 101, 1208–13.
920 39. Rotureau B, Ravel C, Nacher M, Couppié P, Curtet I, Dedet JP, Carme B. 2006
921 Molecular epidemiology of Leishmania (Viannia) guyanensis in French Guiana. J
922 Clin Microbiol. 44, 468-73.
923 40. Delgado O, Cupolillo E, Bonfante-Garrido R, Silva S, Belfort E, Grimaldi Jr G,
924 Momen H. 1997 Cutaneous Leishmaniasis in Venezuela Caused by Infection with a
925 New Hybrid between Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis and L. (V.) guyanensis Mem.
926 Inst. Oswaldo Cruz. 92, 581–2.
927 41. Bonfante-Garrido R, Meléndez E, Barroeta S, de Alejos MA, Momen H, Cupolillo E,
928 McMahon-Pratt D, Grimaldi G. 1992 Cutaneous leishmaniasis in western Venezuela
929 caused by infection with Leishmania venezuelensis and L. braziliensis variants. Trans.
930 R. Soc. Trop. Med. Hyg. 86, 141–8.
931 42. Jennings Y L, de Souza AAA, Ishikawa E A, Shaw J, Lainson R, Silveira F. 2014
932 Phenotypic characterization of Leishmania species causing cutaneous leishmaniasis in
933 the lower Amazon region, western Pará state, Brazil, reveals a putative hybrid
934 parasite, Leishmania (Viannia) guyanensis × Leishmania (Viannia) shawi shawi.
935 Parasite 21, 39.
936 43. Tojal da Silva AC, Cupolillo E, Volpini AC, Almeida R, Romero GA. 2006 Species
937 diversity causing human cutaneous leishmaniasis in Rio Branco, state of Acre, Brazil.
938 Trop Med Int Health. 11, 1388-98.
939 44. Cortes S, Vaz Y, Neves R, Maia C, Cardoso L, Campino L. 2012 Risk factors for
940 canine leishmaniasis in an endemic Mediterranean region. Vet Parasitol. 189, 189-96.
941 doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2012.04.028.
942 45. Peacock CS, et al. 2007 Comparative genomic analysis of three Leishmania species
943 that cause diverse human disease. Nat. Genet. 39, 839–47.
944 46. Martínez-Calvillo S, Yan S, Nguyen D, Fox M, Stuart K, Myler PJ. 2003
945 Transcription of Leishmania major Friedlin chromosome 1 initiates in both directions
946 within a single region. Mol. Cell 11, 1291–1299.
947 47. Clayton C, Shapira M. 2007 Post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in
948 trypanosomes and leishmanias Mol. Biochem. Parasitol. 156, 93–101.
949 48. Rogers MB, et al. 2011 Chromosome and gene copy number variation allow major
950 structural change between species and strains of Leishmania. Genome Res. 2, 2129–
26 | P a g e
951 42.
952 49. Wincker P, Ravel C, Blaineau C, Pages M, Jauffret Y, Dedet JP, Bastien P. 1996 The
953 Leishmania genome comprises 36 chromosomes conserved across widely divergent
954 human pathogenic species. Nucleic Acids Res. 24, 1688–94.
955 50. Britto C, Ravel C, Bastien P, Blaineau C, Pagès M, Dedet JP, Wincker P. 1998
956 Conserved linkage groups associated with large-scale chromosomal rearrangements
957 between Old World and New World Leishmania genomes. Gene. 222, 107–17.
958 51. Llanes A, Restrepo CM, Del Vecchio G, Anguizola FJ, Lleonart R. 2015 The genome
959 of Leishmania panamensis: insights into genomics of the L. (Viannia) subgenus. Sci.
960 Rep. 5, 8550.
961 52. Valdivia HO, et al. 2015 Comparative genomic analysis of Leishmania (Viannia)
962 peruviana and Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis. BMC Genomics 16, 715.
963 53. Harkins KM, Schwartz RS, Cartwright RA, Stone AC. 2016 Phylogenomic
964 reconstruction supports supercontinent origins for Leishmania. Infect. Genet. Evol.
965 38, 101–9.
966 54. Oddone R, Schweynoch C, Schönian G, De Sousa CDS, Cupolillo E, Espinosa D,
967 Arevalo J, Noyes H, Mauricio I, Kuhls K. 2009 Development of a multilocus
968 microsatellite typing approach for discriminating strains of Leishmania (Viannia)
969 species J. Clin. Microbiol. 47, 2818–25.
970 55. Lye Lye LF, Owens K, Shi H, Murta SM, Vieira AC, Turco SJ, Tschudi C, Ullu E,
971 Beverley SM. 2010 Retention and loss of RNA interference pathways in
972 trypanosomatid protozoans. PLoS Pathog. 6, e1001161. doi:
973 10.1371/journal.ppat.1001161.
974 56. Boité MC, Mauricio IL, Miles MA, Cupolillo E. 2012 New insights on taxonomy,
975 phylogeny and population genetics of Leishmania (Viannia) parasites based on
976 multilocus sequence analysis. PLoS Negl. Trop. Dis. 6, e1888.
977 57. Zerbino DR, Birney E. 2008 Velvet: algorithms for de novo short read assembly using
978 de Bruijn graphs. Genome Res. 18, 821–9.
979 58. Boetzer M, Henkel CV, Jansen HJ, Butler D, Pirovano W. 2011 Scaffolding pre-
980 assembled contigs using SSPACE. Bioinformatics 27, 578–9.
981 59. Assefa S, Keane TM, Otto TD, Newbold C, Berriman M. 2009 ABACAS: algorithm-
982 based automatic contiguation of assembled sequences. Bioinformatics 25, 1968–9.
983 60. Hunt M, Kikuchi T, Sanders M, Newbold C, Berriman M, Otto TD. 2013 REAPR: a
984 universal tool for genome assembly evaluation. Genome Biol. 14, R47.
985 61. Sievers F, Wilm A, Dineen D, Gibson TJ, Karplus K, Li W, Lopez R, McWilliam H,
986 Remmert M, Söding J, Thompson JD, Higgins DG. 2011 Fast, scalable generation of
987 high-quality protein multiple sequence alignments using Clustal Omega. Mol. Syst.
988 Biol. 7, 539.
989 62. Huson DH, Bryant D. 2006 Application of phylogenetic networks in evolutionary
990 studies. Mol. Biol. Evol. 23, 254–67.
991 63. Schönian G, Mauricio I, Cupolillo E. 2010 Is it time to revise the nomenclature of
992 Leishmania? vol 26, 466-469.
993 64. Kuhls K, Cupolillo E, Silva SO, Schweynoch C, Boité MC, Mello MN, Mauricio I,
994 Miles M, Wirth T, Schönian G. Population structure and evidence for both clonality
995 and recombination among Brazilian strains of the subgenus Leishmania (Viannia).
996 PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2013 7(10): e2490. doi:10.1371/journal.pntd.0002490.
997 65. Fraga J, Montalvo AM, De Doncker S, Dujardin JC, Van der Auwera G. 2010
998 Phylogeny of Leishmania species based on the heat-shock protein 70 gene. Infect
999 Genet Evol 10, 238–245.
1000 66. Segovia M, Ortiz G. 1997 LDI amplifications in Leishmania Parasitol. Today 13,
1001 342–8.
1002 67. Fu G, Melville S, Brewster S, Warner J, Barker DC.1998 Analysis of the genomic
27 | P a g e
1003 organisation of a small chromosome of Leishmania braziliensis M2903 reveals two
1004 genes encoding GTP-binding proteins, one of which belongs to a new G-protein
1005 family and is an antigen. Gene 210, 325–33.
1006 68. Raymond F, Boisvert S, Roy G, Ritt JF, Légaré D, Isnard A, Stanke M, Olivier M,
1007 Tremblay MJ, Papadopoulou B, Ouellette M, Corbeil J. 2012 Genome sequencing of
1008 the lizard parasite Leishmania tarentolae reveals loss of genes associated to the
1009 intracellular stage of human pathogenic species. Nucleic Acids Res. 40, 1131–47.
1010 69. Coughlan S, Mulhair P, Sanders M, Schonian G, Cotton JA, Downing T .2017 The
1011 genome of Leishmania adleri from a mammalian host highlights chromosome fission
1012 in Sauroleishmania Sci. Rep. 7, 43747.
1013 70. Hartley MA, Drexler S, Ronet C, Beverley SM, Fasel N. 2014 The immunological,
1014 environmental, and phylogenetic perpetrators of metastatic leishmaniasis Trends
1015 Parasitol. 30, 412–22.
1016 71. Acestor N, Masina S, Ives A, Walker J, Saravia NG, Fasel N. 2006 Resistance to
1017 oxidative stress is associated with metastasis in mucocutaneous leishmaniasis. J.
1018 Infect. Dis. 194, 1160–7.
1019 72. Eisen JA, et al. 2006 Macronuclear genome sequence of the ciliate Tetrahymena
1020 thermophila, a model eukaryote PLoS Biol. 4, e286.
1021 73. Steinkraus HB, Greer JM, Stephenson DC, Langer PJ. 1993 Sequence heterogeneity
1022 and polymorphic gene arrangements of the Leishmania guyanensis gp63 genes Mol.
1023 Biochem. Parasitol. 62, 173–85.
1024 74. Joshi PB, Sacks DL, Modi G, McMaster WR. 1998 Targeted gene deletion of
1025 Leishmania major genes encoding developmental stage-specific leishmanolysin
1026 (GP63) Mol. Microbiol. 27, 519–30.
1027 75. Joshi PB, Kelly BL, Kamhawi S, Sacks DL, McMaster WR. 2002 Targeted gene
1028 deletion in Leishmania major identifies leishmanolysin (GP63) as a virulence factor.
1029 Mol. Biochem. Parasitol. 120, 33–40.
1030 76. Olivier M, Atayde VD, Isnard A, Hassani K, Shio MT. 2012 Leishmania virulence
1031 factors: focus on the metalloprotease GP63 Microbes Infect. 14, 1377–89.
1032 77. Brittingham A, Morrison CJ, McMaster WR, McGwire BS, Chang KP, Mosser DM.
1033 1995 Role of the Leishmania surface protease gp63 in complement fixation, cell
1034 adhesion, and resistance to complement-mediated lysis. J. Immunol. 155, 3102–11.
1035 78. Jackson AP. 2010 The evolution of amastin surface glycoproteins in trypanosomatid
1036 parasites. Mol. Biol. Evol. 27, 33–45.
1037 79. Lakshmi BS, Wang R, Madhubala R. 2014 Leishmania genome analysis and high-
1038 throughput immunological screening identifies tuzin as a novel vaccine candidate
1039 against visceral leishmaniasis. Vaccine 32, 3816–22.
1040 80. Mannaert A, Downing T, Imamura H, Dujardin JC. 2012 Adaptive mechanisms in
1041 pathogens: universal aneuploidy in Leishmania. Trends Parasitol. 28, 370–6.
1042 81. Steinbiss S, Silva-Franco F, Brunk B, Foth B, Hertz-Fowler C, Berriman M, Otto TD.
1043 2016 Companion: a web server for annotation and analysis of parasite genomes
1044 Nucleic Acids Res. 44, W29–34.
1045 82. Akhoundi M, Downing T, Votýpka J, Kuhls K, Lukeš J, Cannet A, Ravel C, Marty P,
1046 Delaunay P, Kasbari M, Granouillac B, Gradoni L, Sereno D. 2017 Leishmania
1047 infections: Molecular targets and diagnosis. Mol Aspects Med. 57, 1-29. doi:
1048 10.1016/j.mam.2016.11.012.
1049 83. Matta NE, Cysne-Finkelstein L, Machado GM, Da-Cruz AM, Leon L. 2010
1050 Differences in the antigenic profile and infectivity of murine macrophages of
1051 Leishmania (Viannia) parasites. J Parasitol. 96, 509-15. doi: 10.1645/GE-2241.1.
1052 84. Cupolillo E, Grimaldi Júnior G, Momen H, Beverley SM. 1995 Intergenic region
1053 typing (IRT): a rapid molecular approach to the characterization and evolution of
1054 Leishmania. Mol. Biochem. Parasitol. 73, 145–55.
28 | P a g e
1055 85. Berzunza-Cruz M, Cabrera N, Crippa-Rossi M, Sosa Cabrera T, Pérez-Montfort R,
1056 Becker I. 2002 Polymorphism analysis of the internal transcribed spacer and small
1057 subunit of ribosomal RNA genes of Leishmania mexicana. Parasitol. Res. 88, 918–25.
1058 86. Cupolillo E, Grimaldi G, Momen H. 1994 A general classification of new world
1059 Leishmania using numerical zymotaxonomy Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg. 50, 296–311.
1060 87. Bañuls A L, Jonquieres R, Guerrini F, Le Pont F, Barrera C, Espinel I, Guderian R,
1061 Echeverria R, Tibayrenc M. 1999 Genetic analysis of leishmania parasites in Ecuador:
1062 are Leishmania (Viannia) panamensis and Leishmania (V.) Guyanensis distinct taxa?
1063 Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg. 61, 838–45.
1064 88. Carver T, Harris SR, Berriman M, Parkhill J, McQuillan JA. 2012 Artemis: an
1065 integrated platform for visualization and analysis of high-throughput sequence-based
1066 experimental data. Bioinformatics. 28, 464-9. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btr703.
1067 89. Camacho C, Coulouris G, Avagyan V, Ma N, Papadopoulos J, Bealer K, Madden TL.
1068 2009 BLAST+: architecture and applications. BMC Bioinformatics 10, 421.
1069 90. Bolger AM, Lohse M, Usadel B. 2014 Trimmomatic: a flexible trimmer for Illumina
1070 sequence data. Bioinformatics 30, 2114-20. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btu170.
1071 91. Otto TD, Sanders M, Berriman M, Newbold C. 2010 Iterative Correction of
1072 Reference Nucleotides (iCORN) using second generation sequencing technology.
1073 Bioinformatics. 26, 1704-7. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btq269.
1074 92. Carver TJ, Rutherford KM, Berriman M, Rajandream MA, Barrell BG, Parkhill J.
1075 2005 ACT: the Artemis Comparison Tool. Bioinformatics 21, 3422–3.
1076 93. Li L, Stoeckert CJ Jr, Roos DS. 2003 OrthoMCL: identification of ortholog groups for
1077 eukaryotic genomes. Genome Res. 13, 2178-89.
1078
29 | P a g e
Society Open
