Generalist–specialist trade-off during thermal acclimation
Frank Seebacher, Varlérie Ducret, Alexander G. Little, Bart Adriaenssens
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140251.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140251
Review timeline
Original submission: 21 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 15 December 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 December 2014 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140251.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Edd Hammill)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The authors state the Data will be available in Dryad
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Review of Seebacher et al.
The MS by Seebacher et al details the responses of Mosquitofish to sequential cold and warm
acclimation, in terms of sustained swimming performance across a range of temperatures. The
authors demonstrate that cold and warm acclimation alters the temperature at which fish best
perform, and postulate that these responses do not counteract a specialist/generalist trade-off.
While the MS presents an interesting (if not entirely surprising) experimental result, I am having
difficulty grasping the connection between the results and the specialist/generalist trade-off.
Could it now be argued that thermal acclimation represents a generalist strategy? With
organisms within a single generation able to adjust to different environmental conditions? If so
then the species in question would be classified as a generalist, and then the question arises of
what is the specialist to which it’s compared? I gather the comparison of specialists/generalists is
the compensation/performance breadth comparison, however I think this would need to be
made clearer. In addition to the current section in the methods (Lines 197 – 210), a section in the
introduction describing how individual levels differences in performance breadth/compensation
can be used to directly address the generalist/specialist trade-off would be beneficial.
The authors acclimated individuals to 20oC and then 28oC, and performance was assessed at
20oC, 28oC and 32oC. Why were these particular temperatures selected? The authors state the
reason for the selection of acclimation temperatures (Lines 117-118), however no reasoning is
given for the performance temperatures. For examples, why were fish not swam at a temperature
below their low acclimation temperature (e.g 16oC to mirror the 32oC), and a temperature
between the two low acclimation temperatures. In addition, the “peak” performance temperature
of some 28oC acclimated fish (especially males, figure 2B) appeared to be greater than the
maximum temperature at which they were tested, raising some interesting biological and
statistical questions. Statistically, this could be a concern as correctly identifying the peak would
be difficult, as it requires extrapolating outside the range of the data. A present the authors
appear to circumnavigate this issue by removing data (lines 205-207), this may be problematic as
data is therefore being non-randomly removed, potentially introducing bias. The authors would
need to explain why this removal was not an issue, when simply testing the fish at a higher
temperature would have rectified the problem. Biologically, this result is interesting as it suggests
the peak performance of these fish is at a greater temperature than that to which they are exposed
in the wild (Lines 117-118). The 20oC fish also had peak performance temperature greater than
their acclimation temperature (Figure 2c and d), implying that the phenomenon is not unusual,
but it would be interesting to see it further discussed.
Minor issues
Lines 72 – 89. This paragraph seems to jump back and forth between how short-term (i.e. daily)
temperature changes and longer-term (i.e. seasonal) temperature changes will affect benefits of
being a generalist or a specialist. I read this a few times and got a touch muddled, it wasn’t clear
whether the authors were saying whether one strategy or the other would be ‘best’, and the short-
term/long-term changes - specialist/generalist link wasn’t clear.
Lines 72-73, changes in swim performance and muscle structure have been analysed in the focal
species by Hammill, Wilson and Johnston, 2004 – Journal of Thermal biology.
Line 171 – I think part of the text is still highlighted here
Lines 243 – 247. These lines are a touch confusing as it’s difficult to understand the authors are
addressing different metrics (compensation, maximum performance, performance breadth. Also,
in the first sentence the term compensation index is used, in the second it’s referred to as
“capacity for acclimation”. I assume these are referring to the same metric? It may also be worth
adding a “showing support for a specialist/generalist trade-off” style line at the end of the
sentences.
3
Lines 254-256 plural issue “Characteristics”
Only 1 of the points on figure 1 B and 1D rendered on the printed version of the MS, and none of
the red diamonds rendered on 2A, 2B or 2C, printed in black and white from the PDF using
windows 7. This could just be my sub-par work comp.
Table 2 –
I assume “ID” is fish ID? Would be good to make this clear. Also, as Royal society open is broad
spectrum, may be worth mentioning in the caption what “|” and “:” denote.
Reviewed by Edd Hammill, University of Technology, Sydney
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The ms describes a thermal acclimation experiment in mosquitofish: animals are acclimated to an
environment for three weeks, a period of time know to induce thermal acclimation (phenotypic
plasticity) of physiological traits in fishes. After this time, sustained swimming performance was
measured at three temperatures. This performance trait is often used to assess the thermal
sensitivity of locomotor performance in fish. The ms finds a significant tradeoff between max
performance and thermal breadth in both acclimation treatments. This data is suggestive of a
generalist-specialist constraint on thermal plasticity of max sustained locomotor performance.
The experiment appears well designed and data collected appropriately. I have some specific
questions about the acclimation protocol and the statistics.
Were some fish first acclimated to 20C and others first to 28C? The split between temperature
treatments is important and it is not clear whether this happened, or if all fish were first
acclimated to 20C and then later to 28C. If the latter, this procedure introduces more sources of
variation into the dataset via a carry over effect of acclimation to the first environment;
performance measured at 28C might be influenced by acclimation to 20C in the earlier period.
Without appropriate controls the carry over effect is consumed into the effect of acclimation to
28C. How might fish have acclimated if exposed to 28C first? This is an important aspect of the
experimental design and the procedure was not clear in the methods.
4
However, if some fish were first acclimated at 20C and others to 28C this can induce other
sources of error. The fish used in this experiment were juvenile. Temperature during
development can affect growth rate and size and thus swimming performance. Using size as a
covariate in the statistical model would account for any temperature induced size effect on
performance. The authors did not measure size
in this ms despite its obvious effect on performance (whether or not acclimation affected size). I
would like to know more about the acclimation protocol and why size wasn’t measured. Also,
because the fish were juvenile, some detail should be added about the temperature effect on size
when acclimating ectotherms during development.
Specific comments:
Line 91. & Line 119-120. Can the authors please clarify the acclimation procedure?
Line 165. & Table 1, Figure 1. Why were potential two and three way fixed effect interactions
(sex:acc, sex:tt and acc:tt:sex) ignored in the main model? From looking at the figures there
appears to be a possible interaction between sex and acclimation. Figures 1 B and D compared.
The model selection should be completed again with these terms included.
Random effect structure: Table 2, lines 179-195.
This table is confusing to me. The column marked LRT, is that the chisquared value? What is cf? I
think it is which models are compared but it isn’t obvious at first glance. I would like to see the
loglike and df for each model for the reader to calculate the chisquare and P values. Based on AIC
random effect structure from model 8 has the best fit, but also seems over specified. In addition, I
would like to see direct comparisons (LRTs) between models: 5 vs 6, 5 vs 7 , 8 vs 5, 8 vs 1. I would
compare 5 vs 6 (TT:AT) and 5 vs 7 (TT2:AT) to see if these improve the model fit. If they both do,
then compare 5 vs 8. Finally, I would compare 1 vs 8 to see if your final random effect structure is
still significant from the simple one considering the increase in df. It's not clear what the
procedure was for fitting the random effects but these should be determined first with no fixed
effect in the model and fitted with REML.
Line 209. Why was the sex effect ignored?
Line 221-222. Please provide more information about the model here.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140251)
14-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Seebacher,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Generalist-specialist trade-off during thermal
acclimation") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below
(not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within 14 days - if we do not hear from you within
this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional
circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once
submitted your paper may be returned to the previous referees, or new ones if these are
unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
5
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140251)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140251.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Edd Hammill)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I am now satisfied that all my earlier concerns have been addressed. If I was being picky, it might
be worth removing the shadows from Figure 1, but that's a very minor point.
The authors have done and excellent job of responding to each concern in turn.
6
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The authors state the data will be submitted to dryad if the ms is accepted.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
General comments:
The authors assume that there was no carry over effect from 20 to 28 in their consecutive
acclimation treatments, although this assumption that was not tested. I think this confounding
error should be acknowledged. There is no way to statistically remove a carry over effect from
first acclimation to 20C from the acclimation effect at 28 in their data or even identify it. It’s
unfortunate that some fish were not also acclimated in the reverse order 28 to 20. There is not
much data on the effect of prior acclimation treatments on whole animal performance. The
limitations of this experimental design and the possibility of a confounding carry over effect on
the 28c acclimation should be clearly stated in the discussion.
I wonder whether there may be a greater time lag to adjust to warm conditions for fish that are
highly cold compensated compared to those that had average performance while cold acclimated.
The acclimation time was three weeks which is enough to measure a plastic response. I wonder
what this response would look like after a longer period of acclimation (6 weeks). Even if the
result was temporary, this is a nice result that demonstrates a potential cost to cold acclimation.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140251.R1)
11-Dec-2014
Dear Dr Seebacher
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140251.R1
entitled "Generalist-specialist trade-off during thermal acclimation" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments below.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
7
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document". All main documents should
include the following sections before the references.
• Ethics statement - where relevant
• Data accessibility statement - where relevant
• Competing interests statement
• Authors’ contributions statement
• Acknowledgements
• Funding statement
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_3
RSOS-140251.R2 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix B.
Appendix A
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
The MS by Seebacher et al details the responses of Mosquitofish to sequential cold and
warm acclimation, in terms of sustained swimming performance across a range of
temperatures. The authors demonstrate that cold and warm acclimation alters the
temperature at which fish best perform, and postulate that these responses do not
counteract a specialist/generalist trade-off.
While the MS presents an interesting (if not entirely surprising) experimental result, I am
having difficulty grasping the connection between the results and the specialist/generalist
trade-off. Could it now be argued that thermal acclimation represents a generalist
strategy? With organisms within a single generation able to adjust to different
environmental conditions? If so then the species in question would be classified as a
generalist, and then the question arises of what is the specialist to which it’s compared? I
gather the comparison of specialists/generalists is the compensation/performance breadth
comparison, however I think this would need to be made clearer. In addition to the
current section in the methods (Lines 197 – 210), a section in the introduction describing
how individual levels differences in performance breadth/compensation can be used to
directly address the generalist/specialist trade-off would be beneficial.
RESPONSE: "We have now added clarification in the Introduction and stated the main
novel conclusion, i.e. that acclimation is a generalist strategy that comes with a trade-off,
more clearly in the abstract. We also included a new Figure (now Fig. 1) that summarises
the hypotheses explicitly in terms of capacity for acclimation and performance breadth
and maxima. We also clarified that we consider here differences between individuals
within populations, and that similar arguments could be applied to comparisons between
populations and species (see e.g. Izem and Kingsolver 2005)."
The authors acclimated individuals to 20oC and then 28oC, and performance was
assessed at 20oC, 28oC and 32oC. Why were these particular temperatures selected? The
authors state the reason for the selection of acclimation temperatures (Lines 117-118),
however no reasoning is given for the performance temperatures. For examples, why
were fish not swam at a temperature below their low acclimation temperature (e.g 16oC
to mirror the 32oC), and a temperature between the two low acclimation temperatures.
RESPONSE: "We now provide extra explanation for the choice of temperatures
(Methods: swimming performance): We measured swimming performance at the
acclimation temperatures (20°C and 28°C) plus at a higher temperature (32oC) to measure
performance at a temperature higher than that at which the maximum occurs; note that it
was unlikely that maxima would occur below 20oC {Wilson:2007fx} so that we did not
measure swimming performance below 20oC. We chose 32oC rather than a higher
temperature to avoid exposing fish to damaging or lethal temperatures, which would have
been unacceptable ethically and which would have precluded us from using fish in the
second acclimation treatment."
In addition, the “peak” performance temperature of some 28oC acclimated fish
(especially males, figure 2B) appeared to be greater than the maximum temperature at
which they were tested, raising some interesting biological and statistical questions.
Statistically, this could be a concern as correctly identifying the peak would be difficult,
as it requires extrapolating outside the range of the data. A present the authors appear to
circumnavigate this issue by removing data (lines 205-207), this may be problematic as
data is therefore being non-randomly removed, potentially introducing bias. The authors
would need to explain why this removal was not an issue, when simply testing the fish at
a higher temperature would have rectified the problem.
RESPONSE: "The problem was (as we indicated above) that we were very cautious not
to expose fish to damaging or lethal temperatures, both for ethical reasons and because
we had to reuse fish for a second acclimation treatment. It would have been fine for some
fish to swim at, say, 35oC but not for others, but we could not know which fish would
have been ok and which not until after the second acclimation treatment. Hence, if we
had swum all fish at 35oC to start off with and some would have died we would have had
the same statistical problem of removing fish from the population. So, we opted for the
approach we took, which at least avoided the potential ethical problems."
Biologically, this result is interesting as it suggests the peak performance of these fish is
at a greater temperature than that to which they are exposed in the wild (Lines 117-118).
The 20oC fish also had peak performance temperature greater than their acclimation
temperature (Figure 2c and d), implying that the phenomenon is not unusual, but it would
be interesting to see it further discussed.
RESPONSE: "We added some discussion on this point: As predicted, acclimation did
result in a shift of the temperature at which maximal performance occurred. Some
individuals had performance maxima above temperatures commonly experienced at the
study site. Hence, unlike many terrestrial ectotherms {Dillon:2010cd} at least part of the
population would be resilient to stochastic high temperature events. This heat tolerance
would render the species well suited to colonising variable environments such as shallow
and ephemeral water bodies, and it may partly explain why mosqitofish are such
successful invaders {Pyke:2008kp}."
Minor issues
Lines 72 – 89. This paragraph seems to jump back and forth between how short-term (i.e.
daily) temperature changes and longer-term (i.e. seasonal) temperature changes will
affect benefits of being a generalist or a specialist. I read this a few times and got a touch
muddled, it wasn’t clear whether the authors were saying whether one strategy or the
other would be ‘best’, and the short-term/long-term changes - specialist/generalist link
wasn’t clear.
RESPONSE: "We edited this paragraph to clarify the meaning; the new Fig. 1 may also
be helpful here."
Lines 72-73, changes in swim performance and muscle structure have been analysed in
the focal species by Hammill, Wilson and Johnston, 2004 – Journal of Thermal biology.
RESPONSE: "We now cite Hammill et al. 2004."
Line 171 – I think part of the text is still highlighted here
RESPONSE: "This must be a glitch in the way the files are handled because there is no
highlighting visible in my word document - I'll double-check the pdf on re-submission."
Lines 243 – 247. These lines are a touch confusing as it’s difficult to understand the
authors are addressing different metrics (compensation, maximum performance,
performance breadth. Also, in the first sentence the term compensation index is used, in
the second it’s referred to as “capacity for acclimation”. I assume these are referring to
the same metric? It may also be worth adding a “showing support for a
specialist/generalist trade-off” style line at the end of the sentences.
RESPONSE: "We edited these sentences to improve clarity."
Lines 254-256 plural issue “Characteristics”
RESPONSE: "Corrected."
Only 1 of the points on figure 1 B and 1D rendered on the printed version of the MS, and
none of the red diamonds rendered on 2A, 2B or 2C, printed in black and white from the
PDF using windows 7. This could just be my sub-par work comp.
RESPONSE: "Oh, no, this is unfortunate, and I am not sure what I can do about it -
maybe you could look at the pdf version for the Figures."
Table 2 –
I assume “ID” is fish ID? Would be good to make this clear. Also, as Royal society open
is broad spectrum, may be worth mentioning in the caption what “|” and “:” denote.
RESPONSE: "We included the extra information in the Table caption."
Reviewed by Edd Hammill, University of Technology, Sydney
Reviewer: 2
The ms describes a thermal acclimation experiment in mosquitofish: animals are
acclimated to an environment for three weeks, a period of time know to induce thermal
acclimation (phenotypic plasticity) of physiological traits in fishes. After this time,
sustained swimming performance was measured at three temperatures. This performance
trait is often used to assess the thermal sensitivity of locomotor performance in fish. The
ms finds a significant tradeoff between max performance and thermal breadth in both
acclimation treatments. This data is suggestive of a generalist-specialist constraint on
thermal plasticity of max sustained locomotor performance.
The experiment appears well designed and data collected appropriately. I have some
specific questions about the acclimation protocol and the statistics.
Were some fish first acclimated to 20C and others first to 28C? The split between
temperature treatments is important and it is not clear whether this happened, or if all fish
were first acclimated to 20C and then later to 28C. If the latter, this procedure introduces
more sources of variation into the dataset via a carry over effect of acclimation to the first
environment; performance measured at 28C might be influenced by acclimation to 20C in
the earlier period. Without appropriate controls the carry over effect is consumed into the
effect of acclimation to 28C. How might fish have acclimated if exposed to 28C first?
This is an important aspect of the experimental design and the procedure was not clear in
the methods. However, if some fish were first acclimated at 20C and others to 28C this
can induce other sources of error.
RESPONSE: "We now added the information that all fish were acclimated first to 20oC
and then to 28oC. We also added that data from rainbow trout indicate that thermal
acclimation is reversible so that the order of acclimation treatment is unlikely to have a
strong effect {Bouchard:2003cd}. "
The fish used in this experiment were juvenile. Temperature during development can
affect growth rate and size and thus swimming performance. Using size as a covariate in
the statistical model would account for any temperature induced size effect on
performance. The authors did not measure size in this ms despite its obvious effect on
performance (whether or not acclimation affected size). I would like to know more about
the acclimation protocol and why size wasn’t measured. Also, because the fish were
juvenile, some detail should be added about the temperature effect on size when
acclimating ectotherms during development.
RESPONSE: "This is a misunderstanding and we now provide extra information for
clarification. Sizes were measured in all fish. At the time of capture, fish were immature,
but reached maturity while in captivity, and we now report mean standard length and
mass. Because fish were from the same cohort all individuals would have experienced the
same developmental environment, and there was very little variation in size between
individuals. Nonetheless, we expressed swimming performance as body lengths per
second. Using size as covariate in the analysis of raw Ucrit values gives the same
results."
Specific comments:
Line 91. & Line 119-120. Can the authors please clarify the acclimation procedure?
RESPONSE: "We now provide extra information regarding acclimation treatments;
please see also our response above."
Line 165. & Table 1, Figure 1. Why were potential two and three way fixed effect
interactions (sex:acc, sex:tt and acc:tt:sex) ignored in the main model? From looking at
the figures there appears to be a possible interaction between sex and acclimation.
Figures 1 B and D compared. The model selection should be completed again with these
terms included.
RESPONSE: "There appears to be some controversy about how whether or not to fit so-
called ‘beyond optimal’ fixed effect structure in mixed models by including all possible
interactions between fixed effects. We personally prefer the line of action advocated by
Bolker et al. 2009. Generalized linear mixed models: a practical guide for ecology and
evolution. TREE 24(3):127-35 and Zuur et al. 2009. Mixed effects models and
extensions in ecology with R. Springer, New York, to include only important interactions
to a feasible level of model complexity in balance with the amount of replication of the
study and a set of a priori hypotheses. We set out to add sex as a main effect since the
difference in shape between males and females are likely to cause differences in their
overall swimming performance independent of test and acclimation temperature. How
sexes differ in the effect of acute temperature changes or thermal acclimation on
swimming performance is less clear, and fitting these values could easily lead to over
fitting of the model.
The package languageR for MCMC sampling of confidence intervals for fixed effects
became disused since analysis of the data. We now use the lmerTest package to calculate
significance for fixed effects. This package uses the Satterwaithe method for estimation
of degrees of freedom for fixed effects, all significance tests for fixed effects were
implemented using maximum likelihood estimation. Effect value estimations and their
significance level remained unaffected by this change."
Random effect structure: Table 2, lines 179-195.
This table is confusing to me. The column marked LRT, is that the chisquared value?
What is cf? I think it is which models are compared but it isn’t obvious at first glance. I
would like to see the loglike and df for each model for the reader to calculate the
chisquare and P values. Based on AIC random effect structure from model 8 has the best
fit, but also seems over specified. In addition, I would like to see direct comparisons
(LRTs) between models: 5 vs 6, 5 vs 7 , 8 vs 5, 8 vs 1. I would compare 5 vs 6 (TT:AT)
and 5 vs 7 (TT2:AT) to see if these improve the model fit. If they both do, then compare
5 vs 8. Finally, I would compare 1 vs 8 to see if your final random effect structure is still
significant from the simple one considering the increase in df. It's not clear what the
procedure was for fitting the random effects but these should be determined first with no
fixed effect in the model and fitted with REML.
RESPONSE: "The referee is right – we should have provided likelihood ratios to allow
easy calculation of chisquare values for all useful model comparisons. We now added this
to the table and also changed the cryptic label ‘LRT’ to ‘chisq’. Cf is also changed to ‘ref
M’ (reference model) and specifically clarified in the table caption. We agree also with
the sequence of comparisons suggested by this referee. We re-ran the analysis and
realised that a small, but critical, typo slipped into the annotation of the reference models
in the previous version of our paper and the statistics given in that version did indeed
compare simple models (2-5) to model 1 and more complex models (6-8) to model 5
rather than model 2 as initially noted down in the table. We changed this in the current
version.
In addition we added further information about the procedure for fitting the random
effects, clarifying that all models were fitted with REML estimation and contained the
full fixed effect structure. Note that the full fixed structure is required when assessing the
random structure of the model (see e.g. Zuur et al. 2009)."
Line 209. Why was the sex effect ignored?
RESPONSE: "We added the information that we did not distinguish between sexes to
maintain adequate sample sizes for the regression analyses."
Line 221-222. Please provide more information about the model here.
RESPONSE: "We included the information that we used ordinary least squares
regression and provided a reference."
Appendix B
Responses to reviewers comments
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I am now satisfied that all my earlier concerns have been addressed. If
I was being picky, it might be worth removing the shadows from
Figure 1, but that's a very minor point.
RESPONSE: "We agree. The shadows were a mistake and we
removed them."
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
General comments:
The authors assume that there was no carry over effect from 20 to 28
in their consecutive acclimation treatments, although this assumption
that was not tested. I think this confounding error should be
acknowledged. There is no way to statistically remove a carry over
effect from first acclimation to 20C from the acclimation effect at 28
in their data or even identify it. It’s unfortunate that some fish were not
also acclimated in the reverse order 28 to 20. There is not much data
on the effect of prior acclimation treatments on whole animal
performance. The limitations of this experimental design and the
possibility of a confounding carry over effect on the 28c acclimation
should be clearly stated in the discussion.
RESPONSE: "We acknowledge this possibility now in the Discussion
(l290-293)."
I wonder whether there may be a greater time lag to adjust to warm
conditions for fish that are highly cold compensated compared to those
that had average performance while cold acclimated. The acclimation
time was three weeks which is enough to measure a plastic response. I
wonder what this response would look like after a longer period of
acclimation (6 weeks). Even if the result was temporary, this is a nice
result that demonstrates a potential cost to cold acclimation.
RESPONSE: "We agree and added a sentence to the Discussion to
point out the possibility of such a transient response (l301-304)."
Society Open
