On the Helmert-blocking technique: its acceleration by
Block Choleski decomposition and formulae to insert
observations into an adjusted network
Eduardo Del Rio and Leonardo Oliveira
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140417.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140417
Review timeline
Original submission: 3 July 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 2 November 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 20 March 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 23 March 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140156.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
Yes
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Follows one attached file with some comments (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No supplementary material available
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Some comments about the paper:
- Avoid the personal form to write scientific paper, like "I evaluate", "I considered". It is more
adequate to use the unpersonal form;
- It is mentioned the time of processing, but the specification of the equipment used was not
presented. I judge that is important this information to help the reader understand, for exemplo,
why was not possible the processing of the direct solution using LS;
- Avoid phrases beginning with a number, as you did at the section 4.3;
- The presentation of the references should be revised. According to the rules of the paper, the
references should be presented and numbered according to it appear on the text and should
follow the Vancouver style.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140156)
30-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Del Rio:
Manuscript ID RSOS-140156 entitled "On the Helmert-blocking Technique: its acceleration by
Block Choleski decomposition and formulae to insert observations into an adjusted net" which
3
you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers
are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 29-Apr-2015. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Many thanks for your submission. Your paper has now been seen by two reviewers, whose
comments are attached. You will see that both have suggestions for significant improvements
that you should make before we can see the article again. You should also aim to have the
language reviewed by English speaker. Note that I agree with the reviewers that you should
avoid using "I" in a multi-author paper. Replacing this with "we" would be my preferred option
rather than moving to the passive voice.
One of the reviewers also noted that they had seen an earlier version of the manuscript,
submitted to another journal. Please confirm that this manuscript has not been published
elsewhere.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140156)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-140417.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
4
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
See attached file (Appendix C).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140417)
19-Mar-2015
Dear Dr Del Rio
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140417 entitled
"On the Helmert-blocking Technique: its acceleration by Block Choleski decomposition and
formulae to insert observations into an adjusted network" has been accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
5
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 28-Mar-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
6
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
Firstly apologies for the delay in getting back to you. Thank you for your considered responses to
the reviewers' comments. I am happy to accept the current version subject to minor editorial
changes to improve the language. The manuscript will go through a copyediting stage, which I
hope will correct any remaining language issues.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140417)
Appendix D.
COMMENTS
Royal Society Open Science - RSOS-140156
September 2014
logize for some English mistakes, since I am not a native English speaker.
Concerning the language I suggest reviewing the overuse of the first person (I) in the paper for two reasons:
- Usually, for this kind of text is more appropriate the use of impersonal tense.
- The paper was not written by just one person.
- I also suggest to review some long paragraphs with only 1 (one) phrase.
Example: Page 7 just before Equation 1.
One paper from the same authors and with the same subject were already published in a conference paper [1]. This
r was cited by the authors and by comparing these two papers, similar points can be mentioned:
- The section 2 in the AABC paper are also in the mentioned paper;
- The same happens for the section 2.1;
- The same happens for the section 2.2;
- The same network leveling is presented in the experiment (same figure - 1).
Although in Section 1.2 the authors mention some aspects of both paper that are different, I consider that some
parts of the Sections 2, 2.1 and 2.2 should be reduced, given reference to the previous paper, and at the same
time emphasizing the new aspects treated in the submitted paper.
In Section 1.1 the authors mention “…. LS may be inviable or too slow depending on the computer resources
able”.
- When the authors mention computer resources the hardware is one important aspect and
the other is the software. Besides this, the algorithms and the level of optimization of the
softwares are also important aspects, mainly for large systems.
- Another relevant aspect that have one strong relation to the aforementioned aspect is the
modern techniques that explore the parallelism.
It is clear that the authors do not explore this method but considering the context of the
stated problem I think that it is very important include some discussion taking into account
this aspect.
In some parts of the paper the authors mention “… recent examples …” and give some examples from 90’s. At least
revision and update of this part of the text is suggested.
In Section 1.2 (Outline of the paper) the authors mention “… time to solve the geodetic net is shown to be reduced by
t 33%.”.
I wonder if this kind of information is consistent with this section. I suggest to include results in the appropriate
section. By doing this the paper will be small and with less redundancy.
In some parts I suggest one revision of the notation. In Equation 1 I suggest to include one index associate to the
or y, as done with vector x.
This suggestion is made since the dimension of matrix A (Eq. 3) is not only function of i (0 = i = n).
Why the authors do not differentiate scalars from vectors (by using bold symbol)?
Before Eq. 6 the authors mention “Eqs. (4) and (5) yields:”.
The system in Eq. 6 is not only function of Equations (4) and (5).
I suggest to review if one comma is missing in: “… each xi is determined by this substituting this computed y value …”.
Review “Usually, Choleski method is to be applied …”.
In page 14 the authors mention Block Choleski and Block Gaussian algorithms.
I think that is also important for the completeness of the paper to mention the Conjugate Gradient Method that
is one very efficient method.
In Section 2.2 the authors develop the introduction of weight in the observations.
It is important to mention that the way that the weights is introduced is the same as usually done in the LS
method, assuming that the stochastic model is simplified by considering that the covariance between
observations are null.
The Section 4.1 (named Background) should be reviewed for the benefit of understanding.
- The authors starts this Section describing the difference between LS and HB solutions (lesser
-12
than 10 ).
This difference is related with the Matlab solution, since this software is mention in the first
line? It is not complete clear.
- The authors mention the absolute time (lesser than 10s).
In which machine, processor, ….?
This time is for Matlab or Fortran implementation?
- What is the meaning of “After all, the system incurred…”?
Since the authors made the experiments with simulate leveling network, it is expected that the authors already know
eference and, in this case, it is possible to compute the RMSE – Root Mean Square Error.
- Based on it, why the authors compute the maximum absolute difference between the
solutions?
- Why the authors do not possible to compute the RMSE for each solution?
- It is conceptually correct use “uncertainty” showing maximum absolute difference between
the solutions?
I suggest to include one reference!
- Why the authors choose 2s as threshold to remove outliers?
In Section 5 (Concluding Remarks) the authors mention QR approach, that was not discussed before the “Concluding
arks”.
Since the authors discussed this method of decomposition, why the authors do not consider others
decomposition approaches (SVD for example)?
It is normal to made Acknowledgments like this: “Figure 2 was draw using gnuplot”?
In the abstract is mentioned “I also show that to insert observations into an adjusted net it is not necessary to
just the whole net”.
This solution is not already know in the adjustment computation?
REFERENCE
EL RIO, E. S. L.; CAVASSA, C. E. S.; OLIVEIRA, L. C. A técnica de Helmert-Blocking: dedução e implementação em redes
étricas simuladas. III Simpósio Brasileiro de Ciências Geodésicas e Tecnologias da Geoinformação, Recife – PE, 27-30
lho, 2010. p. 1 – 6.
endix B
Eduardo da Silva Lema
B lema@kugi.kyoto-u.ac.jp
T +81-75-753-3914
University November 2, 2014
n of Earth and Planetary Sciences
1, 252
rakawa Oiwake-cho, Sakyo-ku
606-8502, Japan
Dr. Emilie Aime:
s for considering our paper. In response to the decision letter and the referees’s reports I prepared a
al letter that is enclosed together with the revised article.
sincerely,
Rio
ure: Article & Rebuttal Letter
esponse to Associate Editor
“Many thanks for your submission. Your paper has now been seen by two reviewers, whose
comments are attached. You will see that both have suggestions for significant improvements
that you should make before we can see the article again.”
hanks for reviewing our paper. We hope that it improved.
“You should also aim to have the language reviewed by English speaker.”
eviewed the text and made several changes after consultation with English speaker while the paper
ill under peer review by RSOS.
“Note that I agree with the reviewers that you should avoid using "I" in a multi-author
paper. Replacing this with "we" would be my preferred option rather than moving to the
passive voice.”
hanged it throughout the paper. Now ’we’ is used instead of ’I’.
“One of the reviewers also noted that they had seen an earlier version of the manuscript,
submitted to another journal. Please confirm that this manuscript has not been published
elsewhere. ”
e confirm that it has not been published elsewhere.
esponse to Reviewer #1
“[01] Concerning the language I suggest reviewing the overuse of the first person (I) in the
paper for two reasons: - Usually, for this kind of text is more appropriate the use of impersonal
tense. - The paper was not written by just one person. - I also suggest to review some long
paragraphs with only 1 (one) phrase. Example: Page 7 just before Equation 1.”
e changed from ’I’ to ’we’ at the editor’s request. We also changed some long paragraphs at your
t.
“[02] One paper from the same authors and with the same subject were already published
n a conference paper [1]. This paper was cited by the authors and by comparing these two
papers, similar points can be mentioned: - The section 2 in the AABC paper are also in the
mentioned paper; - The same happens for the section 2.1; - The same happens for the section
2.2; - The same network leveling is presented in the experiment (same figure - 1). Although in
Section 1.2 the authors mention some aspects of both paper that are different, I consider that
some parts of the Sections 2, 2.1 and 2.2 should be reduced, given reference to the previous
paper, and at the same time emphasizing the new aspects treated in the submitted paper.”
hough the derivations are also present in Lema et al. (2010) the one here is complete and revised and
lish language. Moreover it provides a background for the insertion of observations in Sec. 3 which is
or the first time. These derivations are all our own. We included a mention of this fact in the end of
.2’s 1st paragraph (see new comment in red). We also include a link to our previous paper Lema et
10) in the 3rd paragraph of sec. 2 (in red) and highlight the new aspect of this paper: the insertion
ervations.Note also that Wolf (1978) uses a different approach to derive the formulae and perhaps
the reason there is no insertion of observations in it whereas in our derivation by block matrices the
ons of observations follows naturally. Therefore I see these derivations as a third contribution of the
But we did review the paper to reduce the length at your request.
etwork presented in Fig. 1 was used to randomly generate a much larger network as explained in the
(see Appendix B). So this network is just the starting point and is not the network from which we
ur conclusions. The final network is very different from this one and was generated by transforming
e in Fig. 1. To improve clarity we include an explanation on this in Fig. 1’s caption, see explanation
wed not only Sec. 2 but the whole paper to cut some parts and reduce the length. In the
uction, Sec. 1.1, the 1st paragraph was removed as well as a substantial part of the 4th, Sec 1.2, part
2nd paragraph, a substantial part of the 3rd and the last paragraph were removed. In Sec. 2.1 we
e last paragraph and the one before the last (note that the paragraph before the last is useful for one
ted in reproducing the work so we put it in Appendix A). In Sec. 4.1 we cut the 1st paragraph. In
.2 we cut the 3rd and 4th paragraph, but since these are key explanations that make the work
ucible we put them in Appendix B for the interested reader. In Sec. 4.3 we cut part of the 2nd
ph. In the Concluding Remarks, part of the 5th paragraph and of the last paragraph were removed.
“[03] In Section 1.1 the authors mention “. . . . LS may be inviable or too slow depending on
the computer resources available”. - When the authors mention computer resources the
hardware is one important aspect and the other is the software. Besides this, the algorithms
and the level of optimization of the softwares are also important aspects, mainly for large
systems. - Another relevant aspect that have one strong relation to the aforementioned aspect
s the modern techniques that explore the parallelism. It is clear that the authors do not explore
this method but considering the context of the stated problem I think that it is very important
nclude some discussion taking into account this aspect.”
ood point. We thought it better to remove the first paragraph of the paper. We included a reference
hardware used in the paragraph before the last of Sec. 4.1 as well as a discussion on parallelism on
t and the paragraph before the last of Sec. 4.1. We also include a recommendation in the end of the
ragraph of the concluding remarks.
“[04] In some parts of the paper the authors mention “. . . recent examples . . . ” and give
some examples from 90’s. At least one revision and update of this part of the text is suggested.”
did a review of literature recently and could not find new papers on HB technique.
“[05] In Section 1.2 (Outline of the paper) the authors mention “. . . time to solve the
geodetic net is shown to be reduced by about 33%.”. I wonder if this kind of information is
consistent with this section. I suggest to include results in the appropriate section. By doing
this the paper will be small and with less redundancy.”
e removed the reference to the time taken from Sec. 1.2 and cut parts accordingly. We cut Sec.
ast paragraph and a substantial part of the 3rd paragraph since the software tool developed is also
sed in Sec. 4 and the formulæ to insert observtions is the whole of sec. 3.
“[06] In some parts I suggest one revision of the notation. In Equation 1 I suggest to
nclude one index associate to the vector y, as done with vector x. This suggestion is made
since the dimension of matrix A (Eq. 3) is not only function of i (0 = i = n).”
here is no index in the vector y, after Wolf (1978). y is the same for all blocks. That is why only B
es have indices, because these do change according to the block being considered whether y does not
e. Moreover, indices in y indicate the further division of y in subvectors which is done next in Sec.
that insertion of index in y prior to that is unnecessary and will be confusing with the division in
tors that is done separately.
“[07] Why the authors do not differentiate scalars from vectors (by using bold symbol)?”
his is a good point. However since x and y refer to the heights of all stations in the network and not
ngle station I do not see as appropriate to use bold letters for them. x and y are not position vectors
ven point but rather a collection of the unknown heights. Moreover, distinction is done by the use of
letters for matrices and notation used is standardized by Wolf (1978).
“[08] Before Eq. 6 the authors mention “Eqs. (4) and (5) yields:”. The system in Eq. 6 is
not only function of Equations (4) and (5).”
derive first Eqs. 4 nd 5 using property of block matrices and then I substitute Eqs. 4 and 5 in
Atl a formula well known in LS. To improve clarity I include explanation on x which equals
1 x2 . . . xn y)T . See paragraph after Eq. 5, comment in red. This way, Eq. 6 follows directly
qs. 4 and 5.
“[09] I suggest to review if one comma is missing in: “. . . each xi is determined by this
substituting this computed y value . . . ”. Review “Usually, Choleski method is to be applied
. . ”.”
e removed ’this’ from this sentence to improve clarity.
“[10] In page 14 the authors mention Block Choleski and Block Gaussian algorithms. I
think that is also important for the completeness of the paper to mention the Conjugate
Gradient Method that is one very efficient method.”
GM is indeed an important method in other contexts. In HB it is not relevant because the matrices
d are usually symmetric and positive definite so that Cholesky can be applied. However the literature
, including Wolf (1978), does not consider Block Choleski nor Block Gaussian algorithms to solve the
system in y. But since this is also symmetric and positive definite Block Choleski seems to be the
ption.
heless, we include a mention of CGM in Sec. 2.1’s paragraph before the last (comment in red).
“[11] In Section 2.2 the authors develop the introduction of weight in the observations. It is
mportant to mention that the way that the weights is introduced is the same as usually done
n the LS method, assuming that the stochastic model is simplified by considering that the
covariance between observations are null.”
ote that in the 2nd paragraph of sec. 2.2 there is a mention to standard LS: “Taking P as the weight
for the geodetic network, the adjusted solution x by LS method becomes the solution to
x = At P l.” So that perhaps your point is implicit. Note that we present the formulation for a
l case when weights can be assigned by any criteria and from which covariances is a particular case.
heless, we included a mention on your point in Sec. 2.2 1st paragraph (comment in red).
“[12] The Section 4.1 (named Background) should be reviewed for the benefit of
understanding. - The authors starts this Section describing the difference between LS and HB
solutions (lesser than 10-12). This difference is related with the Matlab solution, since this
software is mention in the first line? It is not complete clear. - The authors mention the
absolute time (lesser than 10s). In which machine, processor, . . . .? This time is for Matlab or
Fortran implementation? - What is the meaning of “After all, the system incurred. . . ”?”
emoved this paragraph and changed the remaining of Sec. 4.1 accordingly to improve clarity.
“[13] Since the authors made the experiments with simulate leveling network, it is expected
that the authors already know the reference and, in this case, it is possible to compute the
RMSE – Root Mean Square Error. - Based on it, why the authors compute the maximum
absolute difference between the solutions? - Why the authors do not possible to compute the
RMSE for each solution? - It is conceptually correct use “uncertainty” showing maximum
absolute difference between the solutions? I suggest to include one reference! - Why the
authors choose 2 as threshold to remove outliers?”
e use the maximum possible difference (MP) to express uncertainty after our own yet unpublished
(Del Rio and Ferreira 2014). We included reference to it, see Sec.4.3’s first paragraph. MP yields a
ence interval of a 100% so it is more significant for conclusions as it provides the worst possible
io. So, in the worst case the difference is still acceptable (very small). We do not compute RMSE
e MP was sufficient to draw our conlusions. RMSE does not yield new conclusions in the light of
MP was big then we could consider the RMSE but since MP is very small there is no need to resort
In this case HBG would be the reference because Wolf (1978)’s approach is very much like it. We
ed a mention on that respect just after Eq. 33 in Sec. 4.3.
ink that yes, it is conceptually correct to refer to uncertainty using MP, as the accuracy of a
rement is defined by the Bureau of International Poids et Measures (GUM) as the relative agreement
n the measurand’s true value and its computed value. So, if MP is not big, accuracy is good.
e 2s because it is very usual and it provides a reasonable and safe confidence interval to work with
ny cases in geodesy only 1s is used which is less robust and less likely as a confidence interval). We
a mention on this aspect in the last paragraph of Sec. 4.3.
“[14] In Section 5 (Concluding Remarks) the authors mention QR approach, that was not
discussed before the “Concluding Remarks”. Since the authors discussed this method of
decomposition, why the authors do not consider others decomposition approaches (SVD for
example)?”
e do not mention QR approach before Conlusions because we intend to make it as a suggestion for
work.
context the most usual approach is Normal Equations which is the one considered in the paper as it
most efficient. However, important work comprising QR approach is usually missing in HB references
t we find it important to mention it in the paper. QR is more stable but much more costly so that it
so popular. SVD is even more costly so that this might be the reason why it is not considered in HB
t (we note that HB context refers to very big matrices with millions of observations where efficiency
.
heless, we include a mention on SVD at your request in the 7th paragraph of the concluding remarks
aragraph before the last).
“[15] It is normal to made Acknowledgments like this: “Figure 2 was draw using gnuplot”?”
emoved acknowledgements.
“[16] In the abstract is mentioned “I also show that to insert observations into an adjusted
net it is not necessary to readjust the whole net”. This solution is not already know in the
adjustment computation?”
o, in the literature, there is no such formulae to insert observations in HB. Usually the whole network
justed for the sake of few observations to be inserted. So our formulae is a contribution towards
cy in the insertion of observations. We note that the formulae are our own.
ver, the derivation of HB formulae using block matrices is also our own which is why we include it in
. Wolf (1978) uses a different approach which is less straightforward and does not comprise insertion
ervations.
you for your comments. We hope the paper improved.
esponse to Reviewer #2
“Some comments about the paper: - Avoid the personal form to write scientific paper, like
"I evaluate", "I considered". It is more adequate to use the unpersonal form;”
hanged at the Editor’s request ’I’ to ’we’.
“- It is mentioned the time of processing, but the specification of the equipment used was
not presented. I judge that is important this information to help the reader understand, for
exemplo, why was not possible the processing of the direct solution using LS;”
mention now the equipment used. See it in the paragraph before the last of Sec. 4.1.
“- Avoid phrases beginning with a number, as you did at the section 4.3;”
hanged it at your request.
“- The presentation of the references should be revised. According to the rules of the paper,
the references should be presented and numbered according to it appear on the text and should
ollow the Vancouver style.”
hanged reference style at your request.
you for your comments. Hope the paper improved.
COMMENTS
Royal Society Open Science - RSOS-140417
(previous RSOS-140156)
November/December 2014
1) The new version of the paper RSOS-140156 show some corrections and modifications. Although some correction
were done, in my opinion some aspects were not enough discussed.
Some references that also use the Helmert-Blocking method could be consulted and included.
Usually the labels in abscissa and ordinates are shown in graphics.
ws some two additional comments:
a) As mentioned in the previous comments, to evaluate the method the authors use “uncertainty” and
“efficiency”. It is not clear why the author do not compute the discrepancies, the RMSE, …., for example.
I’m a only a Statistical user but every people involved with observations processing and analyses, as those
that deals with Geodesy, know that there are a lot of statistical indicators that are world wide accepted and
used. So it is very strange to made reference for a “solved aspect” (that is not the main point of the article)
using one non published article [13].
Although the mentioned paper was not published it is possible to find one early version at the internet
(http://www.mendeley.com ). See picture below.
b) As mentioned in the previous comments, some parts of the paper is based on [9]. In both cases the authors
used only simulated data. Although the simulation is important to evaluate some models and algorithms, it is
essential to validate with real data.
So, based on the points (a) and (b) I suggest to the editor send the paper to another reviewer, since I consider
these aspects are relevant for a original journal paper.
Eduardo da Silva Lema
B lema@kugi.kyoto-u.ac.jp
T +81-75-753-3914
University March 20, 2015
n of Earth and Planetary Sciences
1, 252
rakawa Oiwake-cho, Sakyo-ku
606-8502, Japan
Dr. Emilie Aime:
s for accepting our paper. In response to the decision letter and the referees’s reports I prepared a
al letter that is enclosed together with the revised article.
included info on data accessibility, competing interests, authors contributions, acknowledgements
nding statement.
changes are minor I did not highlight them with red color. All the changes done can be verified in
buttal letter.
sincerely,
Rio
ure: Article & Rebuttal Letter
esponse to Associate Editor
“Comments to the Author: Firstly apologies for the delay in getting back to you. Thank
you for your considered responses to the reviewers’ comments. I am happy to accept the
current version subject to minor editorial changes to improve the language. The manuscript
will go through a copyediting stage, which I hope will correct any remaining language issues.”
hanks for reviewing our paper. We feel that it improved and that it may benefit from copyediting.
esponse to Reviewer #1
“1) The new version of the paper RSOS-140156 show some corrections and modifications.
Although some correction were done, in my opinion some aspects were not enough discussed.
Some references that also use the Helmert-Blocking method could be consulted and included.
Usually the labels in abscissa and ordinates are shown in graphics.”
your request I included the labels for the graphics as I agree that usually the labels are shown in
cs though it takes a little more space. I also removed the description of the labels from the figure’s
n as now these are explicit in the figure.
“Follows some two additional comments:
a) As mentioned in the previous comments, to evaluate the method the authors use
“uncertainty” and “efficiency”. It is not clear why the author do not compute the discrepancies,
the RMSE, . . . ., for example. I’m a only a Statistical user but every people involved with
observations processing and analyses, as those that deals with Geodesy, know that there are a
ot of statistical indicators that are world wide accepted and used. So it is very strange to made
reference for a “solved aspect” (that is not the main point of the article) using one non
published article [13]. Although the mentioned paper was not published it is possible to find
one early version at the internet (http://www.mendeley.com ). See picture below.”
r the measurement of efficiency, I have not included discrepancies and sd because they do not yield
onclusions. But at your observation, I felt it appropriate to include them as part of descriptive
ics. So please find now in Table 1 a new column with the sd. Regarding discrepancies I am including
e highlighting them, see Fig. 3. This is for the measurement of efficiency.
e uncertainty I think that using the maximum possible error is enough because this is the worst case
io. So that it means that in the worst case –when the difference is larger– the difference is still
ble and the techniques are numerically equivalent. I do not feel that including discrepancies and
for the uncertainty explicitly in the paper is as relevant as it is for the measurement of efficiency.
you for your concern.
“b) As mentioned in the previous comments, some parts of the paper is based on [9]. In
both cases the authors used only simulated data. Although the simulation is important to
evaluate some models and algorithms, it is essential to validate with real data.”
e do not have real data. But these would great for a companion paper.
you for your comments. We feel the paper improved.
Society Open
