Extreme ecological response of a seabird community to
unprecedented sea ice cover
Christophe Barbraud, Karine Delord and Henri Weimerskirch
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140456.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140456
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 November 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 March 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 23 April 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140456.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Nigel Yoccoz)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Weel done; see my review (Appendix A)
Nigel G. Yoccoz
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I found the Supplementary Information to be very short, and it's not clear to me exactly where the
data for the analyses are, although perhaps that gets posted if the manuscript is accepted?
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
label_version_2
RSOS140456
Overall assessment: This is a tidy, “rapid” paper which nicely links results of reproductive
success in multiple species to an odd climatic event, and I think encapsulates nicely a lot of the
information that is accumulating from single species studies in polar regions. However, the
authors seem to have been somewhat quick to jump on the “this is the first report” approach – I
have provided a couple of examples where this type of result has been published over a decade
earlier from Arctic regions. In one there is in many ways a more interesting result (published in a
much lower ranked journal, unfortunately) about effects of a volcano in the southern hemisphere
on Arctic birds. The second also reports the effects of extensive sea ice on multi-species
reproductive success along with quantitative measures of the effects that are merely
described/proposed in this paper. Although I expect the authors are trying to be “punchy” here,
I think due credit to other studies is warranted.
Particulars:
L89 – Davies tests? There is no discussion of what type of statistical procedures etc. were being
employed. Even the Supplementary material seems a bit skimpy for this? The Materials and
Methods section is extremely brief.
3
L116-118 – This is definitely NOT the first study to demonstrate an impact of an extreme climatic
event on polar predators – the 1991 Mount Pinatubo eruption resulted in a global lowering of
temperatures and effects across a suite of polar species (see Ganter & Boyd 2000, Arctic 53).
L125 – prey, not preys
L127-131 – Again, this exact rationale of effects of extensive sea ice on bird success and behaviour
was described by others previously, including for example Gaston et al. for effects of a suite of
marine birds in the Arctic (Gaston et al. 2005, Ecography 28:331)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140456)
05-Mar-2015
Dear Dr Barbraud,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Extreme ecological response of a seabird community
to unprecedented sea ice cover") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like
you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can
be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does
not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 28-Mar-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
4
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Comments to Author:
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Your manuscript was read and commented on by two independent reviewers, whose comments
should be attached. Based on their recommendations, I'd like to see a revised version that takes
their suggestions into account. In particular, you should focus on building up the detail in the
materials and methods so that the technique could be replicated, and give fuller detail of the
statistical analyses you are conducting.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140456)
See Appendix B.
Appendix A
here are many papers focusing on predicting long-term (i.e. in 100 years or so) consequences of
limate change, but few focus on what could happen on the short-term, that is within a few years or
decades. This paper is quite important in reminding us that we could observe unexpected transient
dynamics. I liked the paper – my comments might make it even more relevant to many readers as it
s now.
- What would be the prediction from a model fitted on the first 30 years of data, and would
the prediction for 2014 be completely different from the 2014 observations? I think it is
important to document that the response is not only extreme but also «unexpected» and
that extrapolation (that is 2014 sea ice concentration is outside the range used to make
predictions) might be dangerous.
- When you write that this transient phase could have negative long-term consequences
because populations will decrease before a warmer climate starts to have negative
consequences, I am not entirely convinced. First, it will depend on the length of the transient
phases (that is there could be a long phase with favourable sea ice concentrations after the
phase with high sea ice concentrations), and second populations might move to more
favourable sites. It would be interesting to know if other sites had similar responses, or if
sites with previously low success because sea ice concentrations were too low had high
breeding success in 2014.
Detailed comments:
- Perhaps specify in the summary (l 28-29) how extreme was the year 2014 (sea ice
concentration compared to the range for 1982-2013).
- Why did you use a box 66-67 by 139x142 to calculate sea ice concentrations? Would a larger
box give a different picture? Or is the box base don what is known of bird movements?
- Figure 1: how did you calculate the SD? Variation between months?
- Figure 2: perhaps give the definition of breeding success again so that readers can
understand why it can be larger than 1 for AP.
Appendix B
9-Mar-2015
Dear Editor,
hank you for considering our manuscript submitted to publication to Royal Society Open Science. As
uggested we revised our paper addressing all of the reviewers’ comments.
lease find below a detailed response of the reviewers’ comments point by point.
ours sincerely,
Christophe Barbraud
5-Mar-2015
Dear Dr Barbraud,
he Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Extreme ecological response of a seabird community to
unprecedented sea ice cover") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to
evise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
ventual acceptance.
lease submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 28-Mar-2015). If we do not
hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
xceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
dvance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to fully
ddress all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your manuscript will
be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the original reviewers are not
vailable we may invite new reviewers.
o revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions." Under
Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to denote a
evision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the referees
nd upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to document
how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In order to
xpedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response.
n addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
evised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
Ethics statement
f your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received, including
he name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail whether
nformed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all permissions,
icences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
Data accessibility
t is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as supplementary
nformation or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data accessibility section should
tate where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section should also include details,
where possible of where to access other relevant research materials such as statistical tools,
protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in an external repository this
ection should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI for all data from the article
hat has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been deposited in an external repository
nd have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the manuscript and included in the reference
ist.
Competing interests
lease declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
ompeting interests.
Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
ection which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors should
meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or acquisition
of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it critically for
mportant intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
lignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out the
tatistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
oordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
Acknowledgements
lease acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship criteria.
Funding statement
lease list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
orward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in
ouch.
ours sincerely,
milie Aime
enior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
our manuscript was read and commented on by two independent reviewers, whose comments
hould be attached. Based on their recommendations, I'd like to see a revised version that takes their
uggestions into account. In particular, you should focus on building up the detail in the materials
nd methods so that the technique could be replicated, and give fuller detail of the statistical
nalyses you are conducting.
Authors’ response (AR): All the suggestions made by the reviewers were taken into account.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Weel done; see my review (pdf file)
Nigel G. Yoccoz
here are many papers focusing on predicting long-term (i.e. in 100 years or so) consequences of
limate change, but few focus on what could happen on the short-term, that is within a few years or
decades. This paper is quite important in reminding us that we could observe unexpected transient
dynamics. I liked the paper – my comments might make it even more relevant to many readers as it
s now.
What would be the prediction from a model fitted on the first 30 years of data, and would
he prediction for 2014 be completely different from the 2014 observations? I think it is
mportant to document that the response is not only extreme but also «unexpected» and
hat extrapolation (that is 2014 sea ice concentration is outside the range used to make
predictions) might be dangerous.
AR: Thank you for this interesting comment. We fitted generalized additive models to the breeding
uccess and summer sea ice concentration data excluding the last year (2014) of the time series, and
plotted the same data on the same graph to address this comment. These results were included and
ommented in the main manuscript.
When you write that this transient phase could have negative long-term consequences
because populations will decrease before a warmer climate starts to have negative
onsequences, I am not entirely convinced. First, it will depend on the length of the transient
phases (that is there could be a long phase with favourable sea ice concentrations after the
phase with high sea ice concentrations), and second populations might move to more
avourable sites. It would be interesting to know if other sites had similar responses, or if
ites with previously low success because sea ice concentrations were too low had high
breeding success in 2014.
AR: We agree and reworded our statement to be more cautious. Unfortunately the colony of
mperor penguins at Dumont d’Urville is the only one for which demographic parameters are
measured regularly on an annual basis. Some other colonies are monitored but only partially and
breeding success data are scarce.
Detailed comments:
Perhaps specify in the summary (l 28-29) how extreme was the year 2014 (sea ice
oncentration compared to the range for 1982-2013).
AR: Done.
Why did you use a box 66-67 by 139x142 to calculate sea ice concentrations? Would a larger
box give a different picture? Or is the box base don what is known of bird movements?
AR: The choice of the box was based on our knowledge of bird movements during the summer
period. We now justify this choice and give appropriate references.
Figure 1: how did you calculate the SD? Variation between months?
AR: Yes, SD was calculated based on variation between months. This was added to the figure legend.
Figure 2: perhaps give the definition of breeding success again so that readers can
understand why it can be larger than 1 for AP.
AR: Done.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_version_3
RSOS140456
Overall assessment: This is a tidy, “rapid” paper which nicely links results of reproductive success in
multiple species to an odd climatic event, and I think encapsulates nicely a lot of the information that
s accumulating from single species studies in polar regions. However, the authors seem to have
been somewhat quick to jump on the “this is the first report” approach – I have provided a couple of
xamples where this type of result has been published over a decade earlier from Arctic regions. In
one there is in many ways a more interesting result (published in a much lower ranked journal,
unfortunately) about effects of a volcano in the southern hemisphere on Arctic birds. The second
lso reports the effects of extensive sea ice on multi-species reproductive success along with
quantitative measures of the effects that are merely described/proposed in this paper. Although I
xpect the authors are trying to be “punchy” here, I think due credit to other studies is warranted.
AR: We thank the reviewer for providing these two studies demonstrating an impact of an extreme
limatic event on polar top predators, which are now cited in the revised manuscript. As a
onsequence we reworded some statements in our manuscript.
articulars:
89 – Davies tests? There is no discussion of what type of statistical procedures etc. were being
mployed. Even the Supplementary material seems a bit skimpy for this? The Materials and
Methods section is extremely brief.
AR: We describe in more details the statistical procedures. The methods section that was I the
upplementary materials was integrated into the main manuscript text.
116-118 – This is definitely NOT the first study to demonstrate an impact of an extreme climatic
vent on polar predators – the 1991 Mount Pinatubo eruption resulted in a global lowering of
emperatures and effects across a suite of polar species (see Ganter & Boyd 2000, Arctic 53).
AR: Thank you for providing this reference.
125 – prey, not preys
AR: Done.
127-131 – Again, this exact rationale of effects of extensive sea ice on bird success and behaviour
was described by others previously, including for example Gaston et al. for effects of a suite of
marine birds in the Arctic (Gaston et al. 2005, Ecography 28:331)
AR: Thank you for providing this reference.
Society Open
