The core planar cell polarity gene, Vangl2, directs adult
corneal epithelial cell alignment and migration
Amy S. Findlay, D. Alessio Panzica, Petr Walczysko, Amy B. Holt, Deborah J. Henderson,
John D. West, Ann M. Rajnicek and J. Martin Collinson
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160658.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160658
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 September 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 14 September 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 September 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160658)
09-Sep-2016
Dear Dr Collinson
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160658 entitled
"The core planar cell polarity gene, Vangl2, directs adult corneal epithelial cell alignment and
migration." has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science. I am pleased to also
note that there are no further minor revisions required. Please find the associate editor comments
at the end of this email.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160658
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 18-Sep-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
3
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Steve Brown
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
This manuscript relates new data concerning the role of some core PCP proteins in the adult
retina. The previous manuscript was read and reviewed by two outside reviewers who provided
very detailed comments and criticisms, and indicated that the results are overall sound and of
publishable quality, but had some significant comments on how to improve the manuscript
further.
The authors have been very diligent in responding to the reviewers criticisms and comments. The
revised version of the manuscript now focuses on the scientifically strongly supported results,
and the interpretations are carefully drawn and do not overstate the findings. The authors have
added details of methods and numbers as requested by the reviewers and they have deleted
passages that were deemed to be scientifically not fully supported by the data. Overall, the
revised manuscript meets the criteria for publication in Royal Society Open Journal. The data are
scientifically sound and represented in a thoughtful and adequate manner. The Figures
demonstrate the major findings and the discussion is valuable in setting the major results and
conclusions into a larger context, as well as raising questions that can be addressed in the future.
Overall the manuscript relates an interesting story that will be useful to other scientists working
in the field. As the authors have diligently and adequately answered all the criticisms raised by
the reviewers, the manuscript is ready to be accepted for publication.
4
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160658)
Thank you for accepting our paper.
The final version, uploaded, contains a slightly modified Ethics Statement making clear that the
work was performed under UK Home Office Project Licence.
We have uploaded raw data files that underlie the Histograms presented in Figures 3, 4, and
Supplementary figures to the Dryad Digital Repository at
http://dx.doi.org/10.5061/dryad.1qh4c
We think everything is now in the format you require but please let us know if changes are
needed.
Martin Collinson (on behalf of all authors)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160658.R1)
15-Sep-2016
Dear Dr Collinson,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "The core planar cell polarity gene,
Vangl2, directs adult corneal epithelial cell alignment and migration." is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 days. Please contact the
editorial office (openscience@royalsociety.org and openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us
know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid
publication and an extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may
experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
