Combined morphological and phylogenomic re-examination
of malawimonads, a critical taxon for inferring the
evolutionary history of eukaryotes
Aaron A. Heiss, Martin Kolisko, Fleming Ekelund, Matthew W. Brown, Andrew J. Roger
and Alastair G. B. Simpson
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171707.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171707
Review timeline
Original submission: 23 October 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 6 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171707.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
See the file attached. (Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Purificacion Lopez-Garcia)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In this manuscript, Heiss and co-workers describe a new species of malawimonad, Gefionella
okellyi, providing a careful ultrastructural description and carrying out phylogenomic analysis
based on transcriptome data. The ultrastructural description and the phylogenomic analyses are
carefully done and the results significantly improve knowledge on this pivotal eukaryotic
lineage. The manuscript deserves publication after some minor modifications.
Specific comments:
- The authors describe a new species and genus. While the morphological information is highly
valuable, information about the biology and the ecology of the organism is cruelly missing. A
minimum of information concerning the ecological preferences and details about the life cycle, if
known, would be most welcome (if not mandatory for a species description).
- Phylogenomic analyses on complete alignments are done using various models of sequence
3
evolution. They place malawimonads as sister group to Collodictyon and Amorphea. After
removal of fast-evolving species and sites, malawimonads are placed as the sister group to
Metamonada (and Excavates are no longer monophyletic). The authors seem to favor the latter
placement because this would support the morphological similarities of malawimonads and
metamonads. The strategy of removing fast-evolving species and sites is largely used in
phylogenomic analyses and tends to work well to correctly position fast-evolving species in trees.
However, malawimonads are not particularly fast-evolving eukaryotes (metamonads are,
though) and applying this strategy can also result in loss of phylogenetic signal. So, does the
malawimonads+metamonad sisterhood reflect real evolutionary relationships or does it result
from signal loss? Actually, looking at the Fig 4B would rather suggest signal loss, since no highly
supported sisterhood is actually found upon progressive site removal. While the authors rightly
question the malawimonads+Amorphea sisterhood, they should perhaps acknowledge more
clearly the problem of signal loss.
- Please, provide the corresponding numbers for the culture and alignment deposition (XXXX).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171707)
27-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Simpson
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171707 entitled
"Combined morphological and phylogenomic re-examination of malawimonads, a critical taxon
for inferring the evolutionary history of eukaryotes." has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
4
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171707
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 06-Dec-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
5
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Maximilian Telford (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
This seems and interesting and fairly straightforward paper. The two reviewers both had several
minor points to make that the authors must address before final submission. Both found the
mansucript sound and had no major complaints about the quality of the text, data, analyses or
conclusions drawn.
The authors must deal carefully with all the points made by the two reviewers. They must be
careful not to over interpret their results and to discuss the points of uncertainty raised by the
reviewers. One reviewer has suggested a reanalysis using phylobayes and this is certainly
desirable. There would need to be some very strong reason for not attempting this and
including such an analysis in the revised version.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
See the file attached.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
In this manuscript, Heiss and co-workers describe a new species of malawimonad, Gefionella
okellyi, providing a careful ultrastructural description and carrying out phylogenomic analysis
based on transcriptome data. The ultrastructural description and the phylogenomic analyses are
carefully done and the results significantly improve knowledge on this pivotal eukaryotic
lineage. The manuscript deserves publication after some minor modifications.
Specific comments:
- The authors describe a new species and genus. While the morphological information is highly
valuable, information about the biology and the ecology of the organism is cruelly missing. A
minimum of information concerning the ecological preferences and details about the life cycle, if
known, would be most welcome (if not mandatory for a species description).
- Phylogenomic analyses on complete alignments are done using various models of sequence
evolution. They place malawimonads as sister group to Collodictyon and Amorphea. After
removal of fast-evolving species and sites, malawimonads are placed as the sister group to
Metamonada (and Excavates are no longer monophyletic). The authors seem to favor the latter
placement because this would support the morphological similarities of malawimonads and
metamonads. The strategy of removing fast-evolving species and sites is largely used in
phylogenomic analyses and tends to work well to correctly position fast-evolving species in trees.
However, malawimonads are not particularly fast-evolving eukaryotes (metamonads are,
though) and applying this strategy can also result in loss of phylogenetic signal. So, does the
malawimonads+metamonad sisterhood reflect real evolutionary relationships or does it result
from signal loss? Actually, looking at the Fig 4B would rather suggest signal loss, since no highly
supported sisterhood is actually found upon progressive site removal. While the authors rightly
question the malawimonads+Amorphea sisterhood, they should perhaps acknowledge more
clearly the problem of signal loss.
- Please, provide the corresponding numbers for the culture and alignment deposition (XXXX).
7
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171707)
See Appendices B & C.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171707.R1)
06-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Simpson,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Combined morphological and
phylogenomic re-examination of malawimonads, a critical taxon for inferring the evolutionary
history of eukaryotes." is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
8
on behalf of Prof Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Reviewer’s report on the manuscript “Combined morphological and phylogenomic re-examination
of malawimonads, a critical taxon for inferring the evolutionary history of eukaryotes” submitted
o Royal Society Open Science by Heiss et al.
Malawimonads are a poorly known yet very interesting lineage of eukaryotes that seems to be very
mportant with regard of our understanding of early evolution of eukaryotes. The study by Heiss et
al., delivering characterization of a newly discovered malawimonad quite deeply diverged from the
wo previously known species (one of them still lacking formal description), is thus an extremely
valuable addition to the protistological literature. The carefully documented morphological and
ultrastructural features of the new malawimonad provide significant insights into the diversity and
evolution of the peculiar architectural type of the eukaryotic cell exhibited by protists usually
eferred to as a “typical excavates”. Indeed, I applaud the authors for the detailed 3D reconstruction
of the flagellar apparatus (Fig. 3j, Supplementary Fig. 4). Furthermore, the rigorous phylogenomic
tudy reported by the authors illuminate in a very important way the unsettled question of the
elationships amongst eukaryotes at the deepest level. All the work is done at a highest standard in
he field and the manuscript is concise and very well written, so I have no hesitation to endorse
publication of the paper. However, before going to print, the manuscript may still be improved a bit
by considering the following minor points:
1. The authors could possibly mention that the mitochondrial genome sequence of Gefionella okellyi
was reported by Valach et al. (Nucleic Acids Research 2014, https://academic.oup.com/nar/article-
ookup/doi/10.1093/nar/gku1266), who referred to this organism as Malawimonas sp. (in GenBank
his organism is currently called Malawimonas sp. strain 249, see the respective records – accession
numbers KP165390 and KP165391).
2. On page 11 (lines 317-318 and lines 322-333) the authors emphasize specific morphological
esemblance of malawimonads and metamonad “typical excavates”. However, in my view the
discussion preceding these statements does not provide a clear basis for this conviction. The authors
do allude to the fact that (with the discovery of Gefionella) both malawimonads and metamonads
ancestrally) exhibit a pair of opposed flagellar vanes, but no other specific similarities between the
wo groups are mentioned. I suggest they elaborate a bit more on this point (e.g. by explicitly stating
which characters are shared by malawimonads and metamonads as opposed to jakobids or other
“excavate” groups) to make their argument more persuasive (and the paper more informative for
eaders that are not necessarily familiar with fine details of literature on the ultrastructure of
“excavates”).
3. The pattern of support for Malawimonadidae+Collodictyon monophyly depending on the number
of sites and taxa removed (Fig. 4c) shows an interesting conspicuous pattern not commented on by
he authors (although less pronounced, the same pattern in visible on the heat map showing support
or Malawimonadidae+Metamonada monophyly, Fig. 4d). Specifically, it is obvious that the datasets
where the removal of taxa reached Paulinella chromatophora generally behave differently (in terms
of the support values) from datasets that have retained Paulinella as well as from datasets that
progressed with the taxon removal beyond Paulinella (as if the abrupt change in behavior upon
emoval of Paulinella was immediately somehow reversed by removing the next taxon, i.e.
Phaeodactylum tricornutum). Do the author have any explanation for this unexpected “fluctuation”?
s it possible that something was wrong with analyses of the particular series of datasets?
4. Is there any particular reason why the dataset used for inferring the tree in Fig. 5 was not
ubjected to a PhyloBayes analysis? I think it would be informative to have it analysed with the same
et of methods as the dataset employed in the analysis shown as Fig. 4a, and I believe the PhyloBayes
un would even converge more quickly with this dataset than with the more complex one. On the
other hand, I see that running analyses in PhyloBayes is time-consuming (and spoiling a lot of
energy!), so I do not insist this analysis must be added.
5. Basal body B1, although mentioned in the legend, is not marked in Fig. 3a.
6. I would probably add a note to the legend of Fig. 4a that the tree is shown in full as Supplementary
Fig. 5.
7. What is the meaning of the asterisk at the label “Excavata” in Fig. 4a? (The same question applies
o Supplementary Fig. 5.)
8. The legend to Fig. 4d should explain the meaning of the square encircling one particular dataset in
he heatmap (my understanding is such that this is the dataset used for inferring the tree shown as
Fig. 5).
9. Replace “X-axis. In thousands” (line 599) with “X-axis, in thousands” (to be consistent with an
equivalent text in the legend to Supplementary Fig. 6).
10. Note that the reference #38 (Kang et al. 2017) is no more in press, as it has been published with
ts final pagination, so the reference needs to be updated.
pendix B
ar Editor
nk you for the review of our manuscript “Combined morphological and phylogenomic re-
mination of malawimonads, a critical taxon for inferring the evolutionary history of
aryotes.” (RSOS-171707). We have considered the helpful comments of the reviewers.
ow, we have copied verbatim the ‘Reviewers Report’, and interpolated our responses to each
nt, and a summary of our actions (denoted by sections beginning with ‘**’)
e numbers in our responses refer to the no-tracked-changes version of the manuscript. For
r convenience, we have also included a version of the manuscript with tracked changes as a
arate ‘response to reviewers’ document.
hope that this improved manuscript is acceptable for publication. If further changes are
uired, please let us know and we will do our best to accommodate this.
Yours Sincerely
Alastair Simpson
(on behalf of all the authors)
***************************************************************************
iewer 1:
lawimonads are a poorly known yet very interesting lineage of eukaryotes that seems to be
y important with regard of our understanding of early evolution of eukaryotes. The study by
ss et al., delivering characterization of a newly discovered malawimonad quite deeply
erged from the two previously known species (one of them still lacking formal description), is
s an extremely valuable addition to the protistological literature. The carefully documented
rphological and ultrastructural features of the new malawimonad provide significant insights
the diversity and evolution of the peculiar architectural type of the eukaryotic cell exhibited
protists usually referred to as a “typical excavates”. Indeed, I applaud the authors for the
ailed 3D reconstruction of the flagellar apparatus (Fig. 3j, Supplementary Fig. 4).
thermore, the rigorous phylogenomic study reported by the authors illuminate in a very
ortant way the unsettled question of the relationships amongst eukaryotes at the deepest
el. All the work is done at a highest standard in the field and the manuscript is concise and
y well written, so I have no hesitation to endorse publication of the paper. However, before
ng to print, the manuscript may still be improved a bit by considering the following minor
nts:
he authors could possibly mention that the mitochondrial genome sequence of Gefionella
llyi was reported by Valach et al. (Nucleic Acids Research 2014,
s://academic.oup.com/nar/article- lookup/doi/10.1093/nar/gku1266), who referred to this
anism as Malawimonas sp. (in GenBank this organism is currently called Malawimonas sp.
in 249, see the respective records – accession numbers KP165390 and KP165391).
Thanks – We have reworded the text at lines 77–84, to make this clear, including adding
article to the references.
n page 11 (lines 317-318 and lines 322-333) the authors emphasize specific morphological
emblance of malawimonads and metamonad “typical excavates”. However, in my view the
cussion preceding these statements does not provide a clear basis for this conviction. The
hors do allude to the fact that (with the discovery of Gefionella) both malawimonads and
amonads (ancestrally) exhibit a pair of opposed flagellar vanes, but no other specific
ilarities between the two groups are mentioned. I suggest they elaborate a bit more on this
nt (e.g. by explicitly stating which characters are shared by malawimonads and metamonads
pposed to jakobids or other “excavate” groups) to make their argument more persuasive (and
paper more informative for readers that are not necessarily familiar with fine details of
rature on the ultrastructure of “excavates”).
We were mainly trying to confirm that malawimonads are bona fide ‘typical excavates’
m a morphological point view, with the (marginal) greatest similarity to Metamonads a
ondary point. We have made this clearer in the discussion (lines 358-362, including
ing one reference – now ref [45], also added to reference list), and also made explicit
t the flagellar vane arrangement of malawimonads and (plesiomorphic) metamonads is
character in which they are more similar to each other than to other typical excavates
. jakobids) (lines 306-314).
he pattern of support for Malawimonadidae+Collodictyon monophyly depending on the
mber of sites and taxa removed (Fig. 4c) shows an interesting conspicuous pattern not
mented on by the authors (although less pronounced, the same pattern in visible on the heat
p showing support for Malawimonadidae+Metamonada monophyly, Fig. 4d). Specifically, it
bvious that the datasets where the removal of taxa reached Paulinella chromatophora
erally behave differently (in terms of the support values) from datasets that have retained
linella as well as from datasets that progressed with the taxon removal beyond Paulinella (as
he abrupt change in behavior upon removal of Paulinella was immediately somehow reversed
removing the next taxon, i.e. Phaeodactylum tricornutum). Do the author have any
lanation for this unexpected “fluctuation”? Is it possible that something was wrong with
lyses of the particular series of datasets?
We have rerun this row of the analysis as suggested by the reviewer and confirmed that
result stands. The instability of the tree topology based on a single data point change
been observed before (e.g. Shen et al. 2017, doi:10.1038/s41559-017-0126). We believe
t the particularly strong aberrant behavior we saw with the removal of a single taxon is
ly explained by introducing imbalance in taxon sampling within certain groups.
We speculate that this sort of phenomenon may not be unusual; it would just not
mally be detectable. It is sobering to realize that if we had either removed only long-
nching taxa OR only fast-evolving sites (as done in the great majority of similar
lyses), this particular outlier would not have been visualised. This shows the value of
unusually broad taxa-by-sites removal analyses in demonstrating that certain results
ly across a range of taxon and site selection samplings, and this allowed for this
ticular aberrant taxon set to actually be identified as an outlier (rather than running the
k of it being inadvertently selected for a representative analysis).
We have added the following sentence to the figure legend for figure 4: “The
iously anomalous support values observed with removal of Paulinella chromatophora is
ly the result of imbalance of taxonomic sampling within the Sar clade that has an effect
the overall topology of the tree.”
s there any particular reason why the dataset used for inferring the tree in Fig. 5 was not
jected to a PhyloBayes analysis? I think it would be informative to have it analysed with the
e set of methods as the dataset employed in the analysis shown as Fig. 4a, and I believe the
loBayes run would even converge more quickly with this dataset than with the more complex
. On the other hand, I see that running analyses in PhyloBayes is time-consuming (and
iling a lot of energy!), so I do not insist this analysis must be added.
We ran the Phylobayes analysis for this dataset. Fortunately we did end up seeing
vergence. As with the ML analyses, the recovered topology flipped from
lawimonads and metamonads branching separately to including a malawimonad-
tamonad clade, albeit posterior probability was low (0.7). The methods, results text,
ure 5, figure 5 legend, and parts of discussion have all been updated to reflect this
lysis.
asal body B1, although mentioned in the legend, is not marked in Fig. 3a.
This is an error with the figure legend. Flagellum 1 (with Basal Body 1 as its base) was
elled instead of B1, in order to keep the label clutter down. The figure legend has now
n corrected.
making this correction, we also noted than F2 in figure 3e was not explained in the list of
reviations for figure 3. This is now added.
would probably add a note to the legend of Fig. 4a that the tree is shown in full as
plementary Fig. 5.
This has been done.
What is the meaning of the asterisk at the label “Excavata” in Fig. 4a? (The same question
lies to Supplementary Fig. 5.)
It is to signify Excavata excluding malawimonads, and also the uncertain nature of this
de, as highlighted by our study; a brief explanation has been added to both figure
ends.
he legend to Fig. 4d should explain the meaning of the square encircling one particular
aset in the heatmap (my understanding is such that this is the dataset used for inferring the
shown as Fig. 5).
Sorry for this oversight. This explanation is added to the figure legend.
eplace “X-axis. In thousands” (line 599) with “X-axis, in thousands” (to be consistent with
equivalent text in the legend to Supplementary Fig. 6).
Done.
Note that the reference #38 (Kang et al. 2017) is no more in press, as it has been published
h its final pagination, so the reference needs to be updated.
Done. We have also made the equivalent update to the reference Heiss et al. 2017.
iewer: 2
mments to the Author(s)
his manuscript, Heiss and co-workers describe a new species of malawimonad, Gefionella
llyi, providing a careful ultrastructural description and carrying out phylogenomic analysis
ed on transcriptome data. The ultrastructural description and the phylogenomic analyses are
efully done and the results significantly improve knowledge on this pivotal eukaryotic
age. The manuscript deserves publication after some minor modifications.
cific comments:
he authors describe a new species and genus. While the morphological information is highly
uable, information about the biology and the ecology of the organism is cruelly missing. A
imum of information concerning the ecological preferences and details about the life cycle, if
wn, would be most welcome (if not mandatory for a species description).
Good point. A few details have been added to Results, part (a), lines 183-186.
hylogenomic analyses on complete alignments are done using various models of sequence
lution. They place malawimonads as sister group to Collodictyon and Amorphea. After
oval of fast-evolving species and sites, malawimonads are placed as the sister group to
tamonada (and Excavates are no longer monophyletic). The authors seem to favor the latter
cement because this would support the morphological similarities of malawimonads and
amonads. The strategy of removing fast-evolving species and sites is largely used in
logenomic analyses and tends to work well to correctly position fast-evolving species in
s. However, malawimonads are not particularly fast-evolving eukaryotes (metamonads are,
ugh) and applying this strategy can also result in loss of phylogenetic signal. So, does the
awimonads+metamonad sisterhood reflect real evolutionary relationships or does it result
m signal loss? Actually, looking at the Fig 4B would rather suggest signal loss, since no
hly supported sisterhood is actually found upon progressive site removal. While the authors
tly question the malawimonads+Amorphea sisterhood, they should perhaps acknowledge
re clearly the problem of signal loss.
The reviewer is completely correct that the malawimonads is not a fast-evolving taxon,
ile metamonads are fast-evolving. In those terms, the question being addressed is the
rect position of metamonads rather than of malawimonads (though the analyses we did
re blind to this being the question). It is only with removal of fast evolving sites AND
most-long-branching species that we see a relationship between malawimonads and
tamonads, and this is captured in Fig 4c,d and Fig 5, rather than Fig 4b.
With respect to the possibility of signal loss, we did include a signal loss control in
4b: Opisthokonts remained maximally supported, or nearly so, throughout the site
etion series (i.e. way beyond the point where the collodictyonid-malawimonad clade
apses, ~15,000 sites). The purpose of this control is noted already in the figure legend.
response to the reviewer we re-examined the bootstrap trees when 15,000 sites were
oved and confirmed that almost all other deep-level groupings of eukaryotes that were
ongly supported in the initial analyses (Fig 4), remain strongly supported (e.g. Sar,
azoa, Amoebozoa, Chloroplastida, Rhodophyta, Glaucophyta, Haptophyta, Cryptista,
coba, Metamonada; Amorphea is recovered with weaker support). Furthermore, these
jor clades are all strongly supported in the analyses shown in Fig 5, which involved
oval of ~50% more sites. These considerations suggest strongly that the collapse of
logenetic support for the position of Malawimonadidae in the Fig 4b analysis is not due
oss of true phylogenetic signal.
We have added text to make this clearer at lines 261–270 (in the Results section) and at
s 335–340 (in the Discussion).
ease, provide the corresponding numbers for the culture and alignment deposition.
ZooBank & AMNH catalogue codes are added. We have not done this yet for the Data
ad submission: Our understanding is that we need acceptance of the manuscript in
er to allow datadryad submission under the Royal Society umbrella.
OTHER CHANGES:
he amount of RNA submitted for sequencing was incorrectly reported as 550 pg, not
ng. This has been corrected.
e have slightly expanded our reporting of the methods used for electron microscopy
3-D reconstruction.
e have made some changes of individual words or phrases to improve clarity. None of
se changes alter the scientific substance of the work.
e have renumbered references to accommodate the newly added references
Appendix C
1 Combined morphological and phylogenomic re-examination of malawimonads, a critical
2 taxon for inferring the evolutionary history of eukaryotes.
3
4 Aaron A. Heiss*1,2, Martin Kolisko*3,4, Fleming Ekelund5, Matthew W. Brown6, Andrew J.
5 Roger3, Alastair G. B. Simpson2
6
7 1. Department of Invertebrate Zoology and Sackler Institute for Comparative Genomics,
8 American Museum of Natural History, New York, NY, 10024, USA
9 2. Centre for Comparative Genomics and Evolutionary Bioinformatics, Department of
10 Biology Dalhousie University, Halifax, N.S., B3H 4R2, Canada
11 3. Institute of Parasitology, Biology Centre, Czech Academy of Sciences, Branišovská 31,
12 370 05 Ceské Budejovice, Czech Republic
13 4. Centre for Comparative Genomics and Evolutionary Bioinformatics, Dept. of
14 Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, N.S., B3H 4R2,
15 Canada
16 5. Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen, Universitetsparken 15, 2100
17 Copenhagen, Denmark
18 6. Department of Biological Sciences, Mississippi State University, MS, 39762, USA
19
20 *co first authors
21
22 ABSTRACT
23
24 Modern syntheses of eukaryote diversity assign almost all taxa to one of three groups: Amorphea,
25 Diaphoretickes, and Excavata (comprising Discoba and Metamonada). The most glaring exception
26 is Malawimonadidae, small heterotrophic flagellates that resemble Excavata by morphology, but
27 group with Amorphea in most phylogenomic analyses. However, just one malawimonad,
28 Malawimonas jakobiformis, has been studied with both morphological and molecular-
29 phylogenetic approaches, raising the spectre of interpretation errors and phylogenetic artefacts
30 from low taxon sampling. We report a morphological and phylogenomic study of a new deep-
31 branching malawimonad, Gefionella okellyi n. gen. n. sp. Electron microscopy reveals revealed all
32 canonical features of ‘typical excavates’, including two opposed flagellar vanes (unlike M.
33 jakobiformis but like many metamonads) and a composite fibre. Initial Phylogenomic
34 phylogenomic analyses initially grouped malawimonads with the Amorphea-related orphan
35 lineage Collodictyon, separate from a Metamonada+Discoba clade. However, support for this
36 topology weakens weakened when more sophisticated evolutionary models are were used, and/or
37 fast-evolving sites and long-branching taxa (FS/LB) are were excluded. Analyses of ‘-FS/LB’
38 datasets instead suggested a relationship between malawimonads and metamonads. The
39 ‘malawimonad+metamonad signal’ in morphological and molecular data argues against a
40 Metamonada+Discoba clade (i.e. the predominant concept of Excavata). A Metamonad+Discoba
41 clade should therefore not be assumed when inferring deep-level evolutionary history in
42 eukaryotes.
43
44 KEY WORDS
45 Eukaryote evolution, Protist, Excavata, Metamonada, Transcriptomics, Ultrastructure
46
47 1. INTRODUCTION
48 Most current views of the diversity of eukaryote life divide almost all known taxa into three
49 massive assemblages [1–5]. These are: i) Amorphea, which includes animals, fungi,
50 choanoflagellates, many amoebae, and most slime moulds, ii) Diaphoretickes, encompassing land
51 plants, almost all algae, and many heterotrophs like ciliates and foraminifera, and iii) Excavata,
52 which includes the euglenid algae, diverse parasites (e.g. trypanosomatids, trichomonads,
53 Giardia), and various free-living protozoa like jakobids, heteroloboseids and Carpediemonas
54 (alternative names for similar major assemblages are sometimes used [2]). The Excavata grouping
55 contains two main subclades, Metamonada and Discoba, which are each robustly supported by
56 molecular phylogenetics [6,7]. Some taxa in both Metamonada and Discoba are so-called ‘typical
57 excavates’, which organisms that share both a characteristic suspension-feeding groove supported
58 by a complex and specific flagellar apparatus cytoskeleton,, as well as and a vane-bearing posterior
59 flagellum. These features unite the Excavata morphologically [8].
60 Despite this eukaryote-wide phylogenetic framework, there remain a number of enigmatic
61 protist lineages with poorly resolved evolutionary affinities. The most extraordinary example is
62 Malawimonadidae. Malawimonads are small aerobic heterotrophic flagellates with a feeding
63 groove [9]. An electron microscopy study of Malawimonas jakobiformis identified most of the
64 ‘typical excavate’ cytoskeletal features [8–10], and phylogenies of one or a few slowly-evolving
65 marker genes usually place malawimonads as a relative of some or all other excavates, though
66 usually with only modest support [11–14]. By contrast, most phylogenomic analyses, which
67 examine scores-to-hundreds of genes, show malawimonads branching separately from other
68 excavates, and instead place them with Amorphea [7,15–22]. If accurate, this inference profoundly
69 impacts our understanding of the history of eukaryotic cells: Assuming the ‘excavate-type’ cell
70 architecture is truly homologous in malawimonads and other ‘typical excavates’, it implies that
71 the last common ancestor of all living eukaryotes was a ‘typical excavate’ itself, under the most
72 popular model for the placement of the root of the tree of eukaryotes [21,23]. This is a remarkably
73 specific inference about a pivotal species that lived more than a billion years ago.
74 To date, only one species of malawimonad has been described, Malawimonas jakobiformis.
75 All published morphological data is areinformation is from one strain of M. jakobiformis [9], ],.
76 Only while almost all analyses of molecular sequences employ data from two strains, the type
77 strain of M. jakobiformis and a second, undescribed strain usually known informally as
78 ‘Malawimonas californiana’a handful ofwhile nuclear molecular sequence data are available for
79 any malawimonad, almost all come from either this strain, or a second, undescribed strain usually
80 known informally as ‘Malawimonas californiana’ [7,15,16,21,24,25–26]. Given the importance
81 of malawimonads for understanding the deep-level evolutionary history of eukaryotes, this is a
82 perilously narrow base of information.
83 Recently, the mitochondrial genome was reported from a third malawimonad, ‘strain 249’
84 [27]. Here, we describe strain 249 as Gefionella okellyi n. gen. n. sp. (see Taxonomic Summary
85 below). Gefionella okellyi, a malawimonad proves to bethat is sister to the previously studied
86 strainsmalawimonads. We determined the 3-Dthree-dimensional architecture of the its flagellar
87 apparatus cytoskeleton, and conducted phylogenomic analyses incorporating transcriptomic data.
88 Our new data provide a broader base of understanding for malawimonads, allowing for a critical
89 examination of the affinities of this mysterious group.
90
91 2. MATERIALS AND METHODS
92 (a) Collection, Isolation, Culturing
93 Gefionella okellyi strain 249 was isolated from agricultural soil from Foulum, Jutland, Denmark
94 [56o29’47.8”N 9o34’32.2”E]. Monoeukaryotic cultures were maintained at 21°C in tilted, sealed
95 15-ml tubes containing 3 ml of 25%-strength cerophyl medium (ATCC medium 802; Scholar
96 ScholAR Chemistry, West Henrietta, NY, USA), with mixed unidentified bacteria. Bulk cultures
97 were grown in 4-litre flasks containing 1.0–1.5 litres of 100% cerophyl medium, on a rotary shaker
98 (120 rpm), at room temperature (RT).
99
100 (b) Microscopy
101 Live cultures were observed using phase contrast and differential interference contrast optics, with
102 100x oil-immersion objectives and a 1.6x “optovar” lens, and documented using a 1.4-megapixel
103 camera.
104 Cells were fixed for scanning electron microscopy (SEM) using an osmium tetroxide
105 vapour protocol [2628], collected on 2.0-µm Isopore filters (Millipore), dehydrated through an
106 ethanol series, critical-point dried in CO2, and sputter-coated with gold/palladium. Cells were
107 imaged using only the secondary electron detector of the SEM at 20 keV.
108 For transmission electron microscopy (TEM), 3 ml of culture was concentrated by
109 centrifugation (3000 x g for 5 min), fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde (in 50% cerophyl medium),
110 rinsed twice, postfixed in 1% osmium tetroxide, and rinsed three times. All steps through the first
111 post-OsO4 rinse were performed in 50% cerophyl medium; as a buffer; the final two rinses were
112 in distilled water. Cells were enrobed in 2% agarose, dehydrated through an ethanol series (30–
113 50–70–80–90–95x2–100x3, 10 min each change), then propylene oxide (50% with ethanol, then
114 3 changes in pure reagent), and embedded in SPI-Pon resin (SPI) with intermediate 1:2 and 2:1
115 changes in resin:propylene oxide. ~50-nm-thick serial sections were cut with a diamond knife,
116 mounted on pioloform film in slot grids, stained with uranyl acetate (10 min) and lead citrate (5
117 min), and observed on a TEM equipped with a goniometer stage and a 14-megapixel camera. 18
118 series of 8–21 sections were documented, plus several shorter series. A 3-D model was derived
119 from one 21-section series, as described previously [2729]. Briefly, the micrographs were first
120 annotated by hand in a vector drawing program. The vector data were then imported to a 3-D
121 modelling program, where they were aligned and scaled appropriately. Annotations corresponding
122 to the same structure (e.g., the same microtubule) were identified, and model structures were
123 constructed using the annotations as a framework. The final model included significant preparation
124 artefacts (e.g., compression, skew), which were corrected by hand. All stages of the reconstruction
125 process occurred with reference to multiple other series; no structure was represented in the model
126 unless it could be identified in at least one other series.
127
128 (c) Transcriptomics and Phylogenetics
129 Approx. 6.6 x 109 cells (in 3 l media) were concentrated by centrifugation (2000 x g for 10
130 min) and resuspended in 100 ml TRIzol (Ambion), and from which mRNA was isolated according
131 to the manufacturer’s instructions. Purified RNA (550 npg) was submitted for library construction
132 and Illumina sequencing (5.9 x 107 101 bp paired-end reads; Macrogen, Seoul, South Korea).
133 Raw data were assembled into contigs using ‘Inchworm’ from the ‘Trinity’ package
134 [2830]. Low-k-mer contigs were removed to exclude mild contamination introduced during
135 sequencing. Sequences were added to a published 159-gene phylogenomic dataset using an in-
136 house Python pipeline [2931,3032]. This dataset also included recently reported transcriptome data
137 from shorter-branching metamonads, including Trimastix marina [3133]. All phylogenetic trees
138 based on single single-gene datasets were inspected by eye, and paralogues and potential lateral
139 transfers were removed. Additionally, all bipartitions in single single-gene trees with bootstrap
140 probabilities (BP) >70% were cross-checked against a reference tree of eukaryotes, and conflicting
141 bipartitions were examined by eye. The final dataset as analyzed here had 84 taxa and 42,564
142 sites, with G. okellyi showing 75% site coverage.
143 The dataset was initially analysed using maximum likelihood (ML) as implemented by
144 RAxML v7.8.1 [3234] with the site-homogeneous evolutionary model LG+G+I. Parameters were
145 estimated by the software and 500 bootstrap replicates were performed. A second ML analysis
146 was conducted in IQ-TREE v1.5.5 [3335] using a site-heterogeneous model (LG+C60+F+G4),
147 with robustness assessed via ‘ultrafast’ bootstrap approximation (1000 replicates). We also
148 performed a Bayesian analysis using PHYLOBAYES-MPI [3436] analysis on the full-taxon 159-
149 gene dataset, using the site-heterogeneous CAT-GTR+G4 model, with four chains sampled every
150 second generation for 24,000 generations. This computation- and time-expensive analysis still
151 showed only two chains converging (maxdiff = 0.168), which were assessed after discarding the
152 first 20% of generations as burn-in.
153 The impact of fast-evolving sites and long-branching taxa (FS/LB) on the phylogenetic
154 inference was assessed in ‘-FS/LB’ analyses as follows: Taxa were sorted by branch length (as
155 inferred under ML using the LG+G+I model), and 35 of them (42%) were sequentially removed,
156 to generate 36 taxon sets (including the original alignment). To eliminate the issue of the
157 unknown position of the root, we generated calculated all pairwise branch lengths from the
158 ‘main’ (RAxML) analysis and used the average of the ten longest tip-to-tip distances for each
159 taxon as the branch length metric. Fast evolving sites were then removed for each of the 36
160 taxon sets as follows: An evolutionary rate was estimated for each site using Dist_Est [3537],
161 then sites were sorted from fastest- to slowest slowest-evolving and removed by 1000s thousands
162 until 30,000 sites were excluded (generating 30 alternative datasets to thefor each original one).
163 Each of the 1,080 datasets (36x30) was then bootstrapped using 100 rapid bootstraps in RAxML
164 (model setting PROTCATLGF). Finally, the dataset with 23,000 fast-evolving sites and 22 long-
165 branch taxa removed was subjected toselected for detailed phylogenetic analysis as above,
166 including i) a maximum likelihood analysis using the LG+C60+F+G4 model in IQTREE, with a
167 1000 1000-replicate ‘ultrafast’ bootstrap analysis, ii) (as above). a maximum likelihood analysis
168 For comparison, this dataset was also analysed under the LG+G4+I model with 500 bootstrap
169 replicates in RAxML (v8.1.16), and iii) a Bayesian analysis using PHYLOBAYES-MPI under the
170 CAT-GTR+G4 model, as described above, but with convergence amongst all four chains
171 observed after 32,000 generations (maxdiff = 0.063)..
172
173 3. RESULTS
174 (a) Morphology
175 Live interphase cells have a ~6 µm long main cell body (4.4–7.2 µm; av. 5.9; SD: 0.6; n=30). The
176 main cell body is generally bean-shaped (though sometimes with a pointed posterior, which may
177 generate a temporary extension up to 1.5 µm) and has a ventral feeding groove (Fig. 1a–d). One
178 groove margin may project slightly as an ‘epipodium’ (see below; Fig. 1b). Cells have two
179 subapical flagella (Fig. 1a–d) unless dividing, when four can be present in two pairs (Fig. 1e;
180 arrowheads). The anterior flagellum (F2) originates to the right of the posterior flagellum (F1: Fig.
181 1f, g; note that 1f is a ventral view — the cell’s right is to the left of the image). It F2 is about the
182 length of the cell (Fig. 1a–d), has an acronematic tip (i.e. narrows abruptly: Fig. 1g), and sweeps
183 from ventral to anterodorsal (Fig. 1a–d). The posterior flagellum (F1) is usually 2–2.5 times cell
184 length, and runs adjacent to or within the groove, then trails posteriorly (Fig. 1a–d). Its proximal
185 ~third bears two vanes, on opposite sides (visible by SEM; Fig. 1f, g). The right margin of the
186 posterior end of the groove is quite robust (Fig. 1h), reflecting the presence of the composite fibre
187 (see below). Cells feed on individual bacteria (Fig. 2a, b), and can form small rounded cysts (not
188 shown). Cells excyst readily in culture upon addition of fresh media. In agreement with its
189 isolation from soil, the strain grows in freshwater media (see methods); its tolerance for salt, as
190 well as for pH and other environmental variables, was not tested here.
191 The nucleus lies anteriorly, in the cells’ right side (Fig. 2a, b; in 2b the cell’s right is to the
192 left of the image; see also Supp. Fig. 1e–g). There are typically 3–4 mitochondria, with.; Oone or
193 more are lying alongsideassociated with the nucleus (Fig. 2a, b) and, positioned toward the centre
194 of the cell with respect to the nucleus. The remaining mitochondria are spread throughout the cell
195 (see Supp. Fig. 3a). The mitochondria have discoidal cristae (i.e. flattened, but with narrow inner
196 membrane connections that are rarely sectioned; Fig. 2c). The Golgi apparatus lies near the basal
197 bodies (see Fig. 3e). Food vacuoles are mostly located posteriorly (Fig. 2a). The right margin of
198 the posterior end of the groove contains a small ‘composite fibre’ (Fig. 2a, arrowhead), with
199 striated and dense components (Fig. 2d and 2e respectively). Each vane on the posterior flagellum
200 (F1) is supported by a lamella (Fig. 2f) that has fine striations visible in grazing sections (Fig. 2g;
201 Supp. Fig. 1a).
202 The proximal flagellar apparatus is shown in Figure 3, with a 3-D model in Fig. 3j (see also
203 Supp. Figs 1–4). The basal bodies are ~300 nm long, with a very thin cartwheel and a simple
204 transitional plate (Fig. 2g; see also Fig. 3e–g). They The basal bodies lie at right angles, separated
205 by 200–300 nm (Fig. 2a, 3a). A striated band (SB) connects the left side of the anterior basal body
206 (B2) to the proximal end of the posterior basal body (B1; Fig. 3a–c, e–g). A dense distal fibre (D;
207 Fig. 3e–g) connects their distal ends.
208 Microtubular root R3 originates alongside B2. It consists of two microtubules associated
209 with a thin non-microtubular fibre, and extends down the left side of the cell (Fig. 3a, c, e–i). A
210 ‘dorsal fan’ of spaced sub-membrane microtubules originates along R3 and the anterior side of B2
211 (Fig. 3c).
212 Three microtubular roots, ‘R1’, ‘R2’, and ‘S’, originate near B1, and are associated with
213 the ‘typical excavate’ set of non-microtubular fibres —: ‘A’, ‘B’, ‘C’, and ‘I’ [see 8]. R1,
214 eventually with 6 six microtubules, originates on the left side of B1, and has a the narrow, dense
215 C fibre on its dorsal side (Fig. 3a, f–i). R2 originates on the right side of B1 as a curved row of
216 ~about 8 eight microtubules, connected to B1 on its dorsal side by the narrow A fibre (Fig. 3a, c,
217 e, f). The I fibre adheres to the ventral face of R2, and is thick (~75 nm), with a complex laminate
218 structure (Fig. 3c, d, g; Supp. Fig. 1b–d). The B fibre is narrow and striated. It originates near B1
219 (and one end of the distal fibre —: see above), and heads right to associate with the right edge of
220 R2 (Fig. 3d, 3h). Root ‘S’ is a single microtubule that originates near the dorsal side of R2 (Fig.
221 2f–i; see Supp. Fig. 1).
222 A novel structure, the P ( = ‘paired’) fibre (P = ‘paired’), consists of two electron-dense
223 and striated elements joined by fine material. It runs alongside the nucleus and connects the
224 dorsal/right face of R2 to the posterior side of B2 (Fig. 3a, b, e–h).
225 Soon after its origin, R2 splits into an inner ‘iR2’ with 6 six microtubules, and an outer
226 ‘oR2’ that grows to 15+ microtubules by addition along its outer (right) edge. The I fibre continues
227 with oR2 only. The I fibre ends ~400 nm after the split, distal to which the B fibre connects to the
228 ventral/rightmost part of oR2 (Fig 3i), and the P fibre ends against the dorsal side of oR2 (Fig 3h).
229 As iR2 and oR2 diverge, a fine narrowfibre, ‘G’ ( = ‘groove’), fibre originates against the ventral
230 face of iR2, but bridges the gap between iR2 and oR2, and continues posteriorly with oR2 (Supp
231 Fig. 1d–g, 2k). Several individual microtubules diverge from both oR2 and iR2 to support the
232 groove membrane between them (Supp. Fig. 1g, 2k–l), while S joins R1, and R1 frays into
233 individual microtubules (Supp. Fig. 2h, i).
234 More posteriorly the microtubules derived from R1, R2, R3 and S arrange into three
235 elements: i) The oR2 (see above) supports the right wall of the groove but is reduced to ~about 3
236 three microtubules by the posterior end, where it associates with the composite fibre (Fig. 2d, e;
237 Supp. Fig. 3). ii) The R3 and ~3 three R1 microtubules support the epipodium, terminating at its
238 end (Supp. Fig. 2c–f). iii) A group consisting of 3 three microtubules from R1, the singlet S, and
239 ~about 3 three microtubules of iR2 defines the left edge of the groove posterior to the epipodium
240 (Supp. Fig. 2d, e), and converges at the cell’s posterior with the remains of oR2 and the composite
241 fibre (Supp. Fig. 3e–h).
242
243 (b) Phylogenomics
244 Phylogenomic Our phylogenomic analyses demonstrated that Gefionella is the deepest branch in
245 the malawimonad clade, with maximum support (Fig. 4a; Supp. Fig. 5). In the full-dataset
246 phylogenomic tree, malawimonads were sister to Collodictyon, with variable support
247 (LG+C60+G4+F ML ultrafast bootstrap approximation in IQ-Tree (UFboot) — 69%; LG+G4+F
248 ML Bootstrap Percentage (BP) — 87%; CAT-GTR Bayesian Posterior posterior Probability
249 probability (PP) — 1.0). This group branched in a clan with Amorphea (i.e. opisthokonts,
250 apusomonads, breviates and Amoebozoa) with quite strong support (UFboot 91%; BP 90%; PP
251 1.0), separately from Metamonada and Discoba. The ML analyses grouped metamonads and
252 discobids as a clade (‘Excavata*’ in Figure 4a; LG+G4+F BP 99%, but LG+C60+G4+F UFboot
253 80%), which was placed on the unrooted tree between the
254 malawimonads+Collodictyon+Amorphea clan and an unsupported Diaphoretickes clanthat was
255 sister to an unsupported Diaphoretickes grouping (i.e. excavates without malawimonads plus
256 Diaphoretickes as were an the adjacent branch to malawimonads+Collodictyon in the unrooted
257 tree). The CAT-GTR PHYLOBAYES analysis instead placed metamonads and discobids as two
258 separate clades between Diaphoretickes and the malawimonads+Collodictyon+Amorphea clan
259 (with PP of 1.0 for all separating nodesbipartitions). Thus, the positions of both malawimonads
260 and metamonads were incompletely resolved in these initial analyses, though all of them separated
261 malawimonads from (other) excavates.
262 Ancient phylogenetic signals are expected to be largely erased from rapidly evolving sites
263 due to multiple substitutions; conversely, what appear to be well-supported deep phylogenetic
264 relationships that may be artefacts that depend on the fastest evolving sites being included are
265 likely to be artefactual [3032,36-3838–40]. We performed fast-site-removal analyses, in which
266 sites with the highest estimated evolutionary rates were successively removed, and statistical
267 support for important clades was tracked (Fig 4b). This fast-site removal was also combined with
268 the successive exclusion of the longest-branching taxa (‘-FS/LB’ analyses; Fig 4c, d). Rapid
269 bootstrap support (computed in RAxML) for the Malawimonadidae+Collodictyon clade declined
270 with removal of fast evolving sites, falling from 100% to ~50% after removal of 15,000 sites, and
271 later to ~25% (Figure 4b, c). Support for Metamonada branching with Discoba showed a similar
272 pattern of decline (Supp. Fig. 6). By contrast, support for Opisthokonta (plotted as a control clade
273 in Fig. 4b) remained at or near 100% throughout this site removal series. In fact, most other major
274 eukaryote groups (e.g. those depicted as triangles in Fig. 4a), still received (near-) maximal support
275 after removal of 15,000 sites (data not shown), further indicating that the collapse of support for
276 Malawimonadidae+Collodictyon and Metamonada+Discoba was not due to a general loss of deep
277 phylogenetic signal. Rapid bootstrap support (computed in RAxML) for the
278 malawimonads+Collodictyon clade declined with removal of fast evolving sites (from 100% to
279 25% BP; Figure 4b, c), as did support for Metamonada branching with Discoba (Supp. Fig. 6).
280 upport for opisthokonts as a clade remained maxim throughout this removal process (Fig. 4b),
281 support for collapsed into triangles in Fig. 4, continued malawimonad+Collodictyon .
282 Interestingly, removing rapidly evolving sites and rapidly-evolving taxa together revealed
283 a broad ‘island’ of support for a malawimonads+metamonads clade (Fig 4d). A single -FS/LB
284 dataset from this island (23,000 fastest-evolving sites and 22 longest-branching taxa removed) was
285 selected for detailed analysis. These analyses recovered a tree of eukaryotes mostly consistent with
286 the initial phylogeny, but with different positions for malawimonads, metamonads, and
287 Collodictyon (Fig. 5). Malawimonads In this tree, malawimonads branched in a clade with
288 Metamonada (still in this case represented by Trimastix and Paratrimastix) that was quite strongly
289 supported in the site-heterogeneous analysis (LG+C60+G4+F UFboot 92%), while bootstrap
290 support under the LG+G4+F model was 81%, and posterior probability was very low (0.7) in the
291 Bayesian analysis (CAT-GTR+G4 model).. This Malawimonadidae+Metamonada clade branched
292 adjacent to Amorphea on the unrooted tree, while Collodictyon branched between this grouping
293 and Discoba+Diaphoretickes (Fig. 5).
294
295 4. DISCUSSION
296 The distant relationship between malawimonads and all other excavates inferred in most recent
297 phylogenomic-scale analyses demands that the cell architecture of malawimonads be carefully re-
298 evaluated, especially given their importance for understanding deep-level eukaryote evolution [e.g.
299 21,23]. If our re-examination of malawimonad ultrastructure had showed that the only cytoskeletal
300 similarities between malawimonads and other excavates were those also shared by several other
301 groups of eukaryotes [23], then the tension between morphology and typical phylogenomic results
302 would disappear. Instead, our study shows the opposite, actually extending the known
303 morphological similarity between malawimonads and (other) ‘typical excavates’.
304 The system of microtubular roots and supporting fibres that are general to ‘typical
305 excavates’ (R1, splitting R2, singlet root, fibres ‘A’, ‘B’, ‘I’ and ‘C’; see [8]) are all present in
306 Gefionella okellyi, as was proposed for Malawimonas jakobiformis [9]. Of these, the B fibre is
307 most significant, since no unambiguous homologue of this structure has been positively identified
308 outside of excavates (though see [3941]). The confirmation here that the malawimonad B fibre is
309 striated further supports its homology with the B fibres of other ‘typical excavates’ [8].
310 The two other best candidates for cytoskeletal synapomorphies for excavates are i) the
311 composite fibre, and ii) the system of vanes on the posterior flagellum [8]. The composite fibre of
312 G. okellyi is the first observed in a malawimonad. It is smaller than in most ‘typical excavates’,
313 but is position-equivalent, and contains the standard combination arrangement of striated and
314 dense components [10]. The absence of this fibre from the original description of M. jakobiformis
315 [9] may be because that study focussed on the cell’s anterior, whereas the composite fibre is located
316 posteriorly.
317 Malawimonas jakobiformis has vanes on the posterior flagellum, but is unusual in having
318 a single ventral vane only [8,9]. By contrast, the pair of opposed vanes in G. okellyi conforms to
319 the most common arrangement in metamonad ‘typical excavates’, which is inferred to be the
320 ancestral state for Metamonada, based on mapping characters to molecular phylogenies [4042].
321 Also, our documenting of striations on the malawimonad vane lamellae of a malawimonad further
322 supports their homology with the lamellae of other ‘typical excavates’, which are similarly striated
323 [8,4143]. The possession of opposed vanes (and where not, having a single ventral vane), is shared
324 by Malawimonadidae and Metamonada to the exclusion of Jakobida (the only ‘typical excavate’
325 group in Discoba), since jakobids have only a single dorsal vane [10].
326
327 Otherwise, the ultrastructure of G. okellyi underscores its identity as a malawimonad. The
328 discoidal cristae, striated band and distal fibre connectives between the BBs, sizes of R1 and R2,
329 and epipodium supported by part of R1 are all similar to M. jakobiformis [9]. The G fibre was not
330 observed in M. jakobiformis, though this subtle feature would be easily overlooked. The
331 conspicuous P fibre was also not recorded in M. jakobiformis, however, and provisionally
332 distinguishes Gefionella from Malawimonas.
333 Meanwhile, our phylogenomic analyses demonstrate the weakness of the common
334 inference that malawimonads are not related to any other excavates. It is well known that
335 systematic errors such as long branch attraction (LBA) artefacts can result when the model of
336 evolution does not sufficiently reflect the actual evolutionary process [4244]. In some cases these
337 errors can be overcome using more realistic models of sequence evolution, or excluding likely
338 sources of phylogenetic ‘noise’, such as fast-evolving sites or long-branching taxa. On this basis,
339 the relationship between malawimonads and Collodictyon recovered in our initial analysis (and
340 several previous analyses [16,18,20]) is suspected to represent phylogenetic error. It is only weakly
341 supported in our ML analysis using a site-heterogeneous mixture model (69% UFboot), and
342 support under site-homogeneous substitution models rapidly decreases once several thousand fast-
343 evolving sites are removed (Fig 4b). In parallel, site-heterogeneous models support the
344 conventional placement of Metamonada with Discoba only moderately (under ML with the
345 LG+C60+G4+F model), or not at all (under PhylobayesBayesian analysis with the CAT-GTR
346 model), and the initially strong support for Metamonada+Discoba under simpler site-homogenous
347 models weakens as the noisiest data are excluded (fast-evolving sites, in particular: Supp. Fig 6).
348 The collapse in support for both groupings with exclusion of fast -evolving sites occurred while
349 support for other similar-scale groupings remained very strong (exemplified by Opisthokonta in
350 Fig. 4b, but equivalent for other clades). This indicates that the dissolution of support for
351 Malawimonadidae+Collodictyon and Metamonada+Discoba is not due to a general loss of deep
352 phylogenetic signal. Instead, we find support for a Malawimonadidae+Metamonada grouping in
353 our ‘-FS/LB’ analyses, where fast-evolving sites and long branching taxa are both removed (Fig
354 4d, 5). As pointed out by Derelle et al. [21], a malawimonad+metamonad relationship has also
355 been observed in a few recent phylogenomic analyses, specifically some in which metamonads are
356 represented solely by the shorter-branching species Paratrimastix pyriformis (formerly Trimastix
357 pyriformis) [18,19,30]. Thus, from our various treatments, i) a malawimonad+metamonad
358 grouping received its strongest support from the slowest evolving sites, and more sophisticated
359 evolutionary models, and ii) we still recovered this grouping with better taxon sampling for
360 malawimonads and short-branched metamonads than was available in previous work. These trends
361 are consistent with the malawimonad+metamonad phylogenetic signal reflecting the true
362 evolutionary history. Conversely, the initial topology, including a Metamonada+Discoba clade,
363 may be affected by LBA. Prior to long-branch removal, Metamonada and Discoba each included
364 some of the longest-branching taxa examined (Supp. Fig. 5), even though the most divergent
365 metamonad taxa (e.g., diplomonads) were excluded a priori. This could have resulted in
366 metamonads being pulled toward discobids and away from malawimonads, the latter being one of
367 the shortest-branching groups of eukaryotes.
368 A close relationship between malawimonads and metamonads would also be consistent
369 with other non-phylogenomic data. As discussed above, there are especially strongconsiderable
370 morphological similarities between malawimonads and metamonad ‘typical excavates’;. aAt the
371 ultrastructural level, they resemble each other more than either resemble any other group of
372 eukaryotes, including other ‘typical excavates’ (i.e. jakobids), when the new information on
373 flagellar vane organisation is taken into account. (Malawimonads and metamonads(they also share
374 the plesiomorphy of having an anterior R3 root, which is likely absent in all jakobids [45]).)
375 Further, some phylogenies inferred for one or a few slowly-evolving nucleus-encoded proteins
376 place malawimonads with at least the shorter-branching metamonads (e.g. Trimastix,
377 Paratrimastix), albeit usually with weak statistical support [11,13,14].
378 In summary, this study provides additional evidence that malawimonads are ‘typical
379 excavates’, morphologically speaking, with their greatest similarity being to certain metamonads.
380 Further, it highlights the weakness of the phylogenomic evidence separating malawimonads from
381 all other excavates, and demonstrates that a moderately-well-supported
382 malawimonad+metamonad grouping can be recovered in selected noise-filtered datasets.
383 Together, the re-examined morphological and phylogenetic evidence imply that the predominant
384 view of the evolutionary relationships among excavates (that malawimonads branch outside, and
385 probably completely separately, from a robust Metamonada+Discoba clade [3–5]) is extremely
386 insecure. Instead, it is likelythe proposition that metamonads are more closely related to
387 malawimonads than they are to Discoba, as is consistent with a greater range of evidence and
388 analyses. At presentTherefore, we caution that an Excavata grouping of Metamonada+Discoba
389 should not be assumed in studies of the evolution of eukaryotes, such as inferring the history of
390 major cellular systems from comparative genome data [e.g. 43-4546–48]. In this view (and
391 contrary to that with malawimonads branching separately from a Metamonada+Discoba clade),
392 the strong morphological similarity between malawimonads and metamonads is not directly
393 relevant for inferring the cytoskeleton organisation in the last common ancestor of eukaryotes,
394 since they are unlikely to branch on opposite sides of the root of eukaryotes [21].
395 The ‘malawimonad+metamonad signal’ may or may not reflect an exclusive sister-group
396 relationship between these two taxa. Further testing is needed, especially using high-quality
397 phylogenomic data from other hard-to-place eukaryote lineages (addressed in our ongoing
398 research). In addition, the large disparities in branch lengths amongst Malawimonadidae,
399 Metamonada, and Discoba make it very challenging to resolve their relationships using
400 phylogenomics. Denser and better-quality taxon sampling in phylogenomic datasets would be
401 valuable, especially the addition of shorter-branching lineages of metamonads and discobids, or
402 more malawimonad clades. Recent isolations of novel deep-branching discobids and metamonads
403 [13,14,4649] hint that many other important excavate lineages may indeed await discovery. Final
404 resolution of these relationships will probably also require both sophisticated evolutionary models
405 and identifying the most reliable data within the large amounts of sequence information now
406 available.
407
408 5. TAXONOMIC SUMMARY AND DESCRIPTION
409 Gefionella Heiss, Ekelund and Simpson n. gen.
410 Diagnosis: Malawimonad with two vanes on posterior flagellum, and conspicuous paired fibre (P)
411 connecting basal body 2 and R2.
412 Etymology: Gefion-: Gefion (Gefjon, Gefjun) is a Norse goddess associated with ploughing;
413 Gefionspringvandet, the largest public monument in Copenhagen, shows Gefion goading her oxen
414 with a whip. -ella: Latin feminine diminutive. The name is appropriate for a small excavate(d)
415 flagellate isolated from agricultural soil from Denmark. Gefionella is of feminine gender.
416 Type species: Gefionella okellyi Heiss, Ekelund and Simpson n. sp. (see below).
417 Zoobank registration: Described under the Zoological Code; Zoobank registration
418 urn:lsid:zoobank.org:act:4CFB90BA-52A0-470F-9AD1-B2DF4BB59C09.
419
420
421 Gefionella okellyi Heiss, Ekelund and Simpson n. sp.
422 Diagnosis: Gefionella species, cell body 4.4–7.2 µm long (not including occasional narrow
423 posterior extensions).
424 Type material: The name-bearing type (an hapantotype) is a collection of fixed, dehydrated, resin-
425 embedded cells of strain 249, deposited with the American Museum of Natural History, New York,
426 as AMNH_IZC 00267131XXXXXX. This material also contains uncharacterised prokaryote
427 prey.
428 Type locality: Agricultural soil, Foulum, Jutland, Denmark [56°29’47.8”N 9°34’32.2”E]
429 Etymology: Named after Charles J. O’Kelly, who pioneered ultrastructural and phylogenetic
430 research into small ‘excavate’ flagellates, including malawimonads.
431 Formatted: Normal
432 Zoobank registration: Described under the Zoological Code; Zoobank registration
433 urn:lsid:zoobank.org:act:461B7908-6D63-4E79-8AE5-E7BAFAB28BA2(XXXXX).
434
435 ETHICS
436 No ethics approval was required for the research reported in this publication.
437
438 DATA ACCESSIBILITY
439 The transcriptome data are accessed in Genbank SRA as Bioproject PRJNA400870. The
440 unmasked single-gene alignments, and masked concatenated phylogenomic datasets are accessed
441 in Dryad (doi:10.5061/dryad.9mv6d51).
442
443 AUTHORS’ CONTRIBUTIONS
444 FE isolated and cultivated strain 249; AAH carried out the light and electron microscopy and
445 molecular lab work; MWB, AAH and MK assembled the phylogenomic dataset; MK and AAH
446 conducted the phylogenomic analyses; AGBS and AJR conceived the study and supervised the
447 research; AAH, MK and AGBS drafted the manuscript. All authors edited the manuscript and
448 gave final approval for publication.
449
450 COMPETING INTERESTS
451 The authors declare no competing interests.
452
453 FUNDING
454 This research was supported by NSERC Discovery Grant 298366-2014 to AGBS, and the Tula
455 Foundation. FE was supported by Danish Council for Independent Research (DFF-4002-00274).
456 MWB was supported in part by the National Science Foundation (NSF) Division of Environmental
457 Biology (DEB) grant 1456054 (http://www.nsf.gov).
458
459 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
460 The authors thank Brian Leander (University of British Columbia) & Mark Farmer (University of
461 Georgia) for advice on SEM fixation, Patricia Scallion and Ping Li (Dalhousie University) for
462 electron microscopy assistance, and Alaric Heiss for assistance with 3-D modelling.
463 DATA
464 The transcriptome data are accessed in Genbank SRA as Bioproject PRJNA400870. The
465 unmasked single-gene alignments, and masked concatenated phylogenomic datasets are accessed
466 in Dryad (doi: XXXXXX).
467
468 COMPETING INTERESTS
469 We have no competing interests.
470
471 AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
472 FE isolated and cultivated strain 249; AAH carried out the light and electron microscopy and
473 molecular lab work; MWB, AAH and MK assembled the phylogenomic dataset; MK and AAH
474 conducted the phylogenomic analyses; AGBS and AJR conceived the study and supervised the
475 research; AAH, MK and AGBS drafted the manuscript. All authors edited the manuscript and
476 gave final approval for publication.
477
478 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
479 The authors thank Brian Leander (University of British Columbia) & Mark Farmer (University of
480 Georgia) for advice on SEM fixation, Patricia Scallion and Ping Li (Dalhousie University) for
481 electron microscopy assistance, and Alaric Heiss for assistance with 3-D modelling.
482
483 FUNDING
484 This research was supported by NSERC Discovery Grant 298366-2014 to AGBS, and the Tula
485 Foundation. FE was supported by Danish Council for Independent Research (DFF-4002-00274).
486 MWB was supported in part by the National Science Foundation (NSF) Division of Environmental
487 Biology (DEB) grant 1456054 (http://www.nsf.gov).
488
489 REFERENCES
490 1. Adl SM, Simpson AGB, Lane CE, Lukeš J, Bass D, Bowser SS, Brown MW, Burki F,
491 Dunthorn M, Hampl V, et al. 2012 The revised classification of eukaryotes. J. Eukaryot.
492 Microbiol. 57, 429–493. (doi:10.1111/j.1550-7408.2012.00644.x)
493 2. Cavalier-Smith T. 2013 Early evolution of eukaryote feeding modes, cell structural diversity,
494 and classification of the protozoan phyla Loukozoa, Sulcozoa, and Choanozoa. Europ. J.
495 Protistol. 49, 115–178. (doi:10.1016/j.ejop.2012.06.001)
496 3. Burki F. 2014 The eukaryotic tree of life from a global phylogenomic perspective. Cold
497 Spring Harb. Perspect. Biol. 6, a016147. (doi:10.1101/cshperspect.a016147)
498 4. Worden AZ, Follows MJ, Giovannoni SJ, Wilken S, Zimmerman AE, Keeling PJ. 2015
499 Rethinking the marine carbon cycle: factoring in the multifarious lifestyles of microbes.
500 Science. 347, 1257594. (doi:10.1126/science.1257594)
501 5. Simpson AGB, Eglit Y. 2016 Protist Diversification. In Encyclopedia of Evolutionary
502 Biology, pp. 344–360. Elsevier. (doi:10.1016/b978-0-12-800049-6.00247-x)
503 6. Cavalier-Smith T. 2003 The excavate protozoan phyla Metamonada Grassé emend.
504 (Anaeromonadea, Parabasalia, Carpediemonas, Eopharyngia) and Loukozoa emend.
505 (Jakobea, Malawimonas): their evolutionary affinities and new higher taxa. Int. J. Syst.
506 Evol. Microbiol. 53, 1741–1758. (doi:10.1099/ijs.0.02548-0)
507 7. Hampl V, Hug L, Leigh JW, Dacks JB, Lang BF, Simpson AGB, Roger AJ. 2009
508 Phylogenomic analyses support the monophyly of Excavata and resolve relationships
509 among eukaryotic “supergroups”. Proc. Nat’l. Acad. Sci. USA 106, 3859–3864.
510 (doi:10.1073/pnas.0807880106)
511 8. Simpson AGB. 2003 Cytoskeletal organization, phylogenetic af<U+FB01>nities and systematics in the
512 contentious taxon Excavata (Eukaryota). Int. J. Syst. Evol. Microbiol. 53, 1759–1777.
513 (doi:10.1099/ijs.0.02578-0)
514 9. O’Kelly CJ, Nerad TA. 1999 Malawimonas jakobiformis n. gen., n. sp. (Malawimonadidae
515 fam. nov.): a Jakoba-like heterotrophic nanoflagellate with discoidal mitochondrial cristae.
516 J. Eukaryot. Microbiol. 46, 522–531. (doi:10.1111/j.1550-7408.1999.tb06070.x)
517 10. Simpson AGB, Patterson DJ. 1999 The ultrastructure of Carpediemonas membranifera
518 (Eukaryota) with reference to the ‘excavate hypothesis’. Europ. J. Protistol. 35, 353–370.
519 (doi:10.1016/S0932-4739(99)80044-3)
520 11. Simpson AGB, Inagaki Y, Roger AJ. 2006 Comprehensive multigene phylogenies of
521 excavate protists reveal the evolutionary positions of “primitive” eukaryotes. Mol. Biol.
522 Evol. 23, 615–625. (doi:10.1093/molbev/msj068)
523 12. Parfrey LW, Grant J, Tekle YI, Lasek-Nesselquist E, Morrison HG, Sogin ML, Patterson DJ,
524 Katz LA. 2010 Broadly sampled multigene analyses yield a well-resolved eukaryotic tree
525 of life. Syst. Biol. 59, 518–533. (doi:10.1093/sysbio/syq037)
526 13. Pánek T, Táborský P, Pachiadaki MG, Hroudová M, Vlcek C, Edgcomb VP, Cepicka I.
527 2015 Combined culture-based and culture-independent approaches provide insights into
528 diversity of jakobids, an extremely plesiomorphic eukaryotic lineage. Front. Microbiol. 6,
529 1288. (doi: doi:10.3389/fmicb.2015.01288)
530 14. Zhang Q, Táborsky P, Silberman JD, Pánek T, Cepicka I, Simpson AGB. 2015 Marine
531 isolates of Trimastix marina form a plesiomorphic deep-branching lineage within
532 Preaxostyla, separate from other known trimastigids (Paratrimastix n. gen.). Protist 166,
533 468–491. (doi:10.1016/j.protis.2015.07.003)
534 15. Derelle R, Lang BF. 2012 Rooting the eukaryotic tree with mitochondrial and bacterial
535 proteins. Mol. Biol. Evol. 29, 1277–1289. (doi:10.1093/molbev/msr295)
536 16. Zhao S, Burki F, Bråte J, Keeling PJ, Klaveness D, Shalchian-Tabrizi K. 2012 Collodictyon
537 — an ancient lineage in the tree of eukaryotes. Mol. Biol. Evol. 29, 1557–1568.
538 (doi:10.1093/molbev/mss001)
539 17. Zhao S, Shalchian-Tabrizi K, Klaveness D. 2013 Sulcozoa revealed as a paraphyletic group
540 in mitochondrial phylogenomics. Mol. Phyl. Evol. 69, 462–468.
541 (doi:10.1016/j.ympev.2013.08.005)
542 18. Cavalier-Smith T, Chao EE, Snell EA, Berney C, Fiore-Donno AM, Lewis R. 2014
543 Multigene eukaryote phylogeny reveals the likely protozoan ancestors of opisthokonts
544 (animals, fungi, choanozoans) and Amoebozoa. Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 81, 71–85.
545 (doi:10.1016/j.ympev.2014.08.012)
546 19. Kamikawa R, Kolisko M, Nishimura Y, Yabuki A, Brown MW, Ishikawa SA, Ishida K,
547 Roger AJ, Hashimoto T, Inagaki Y. 2014 Gene content evolution in discobid
548 mitochondria deduced from the phylogenetic position and complete mitochondrial genome
549 of Tsukubamonas globosa. Genome Biol. Evol. 6, 306–315. (doi:10.1093/gbe/evu015)
550 20. Katz LA, Grant JR. 2015 Taxon-rich phylogenomic analyses resolve the eukaryotic tree of
551 life and reveal the power of subsampling by sites. Syst. Biol. 64, 406–415.
552 (doi:10.1093/sysbio/syu126)
553 21. Derelle R, Torruella G, Klimeš V, Brinkmann H, Kim E, Vlcek C, Lang BF, Eliáš M. 2015
554 Bacterial proteins pinpoint a single eukaryotic root. Proc. Nat’l. Acad. Sci. USA 112,
555 E693–E699. (doi: doi:10.1073/pnas.1420657112)
556 22. Burki F, Kaplan M, Tikhonenkov DV, Zlatogursky V, Minh BQ, Radaykina LV, Smirnov A,
557 Mylnikov AP, Keeling PJ. 2016 Untangling the early diversification of eukaryotes: a
558 phylogenomic study of the evolutionary origins of Centrohelida, Haptophyta and Cryptista.
559 Proc. R. Soc. B 283, 20152802. (doi: doi:10.1098/rspb.2015.2802)
560 23. Yubuki N, Leander BS. 2013 Evolution of microtubule organizing centers across the tree of
561 eukaryotes. Plant J. 75, 230–244. (doi:10.1111/tpj.12145)
562 24. Rodríguez-Ezpeleta N, Brinkmann H, Burger G, Roger AJ, Gray MW, Philippe H, Lang BF.
563 2007 Toward resolving the eukaryotic tree: the phylogenetic positions of jakobids and
564 cercozoans. Curr. Biol. 17, 1420–1425. (doi:10.1016/j.cub.2007.07.036)
565 25. Burger G, Gray MW, Forget L, Lang BF. 2013 Strikingly bacteria-like and gene-rich
566 mitochondrial genomes throughout jakobid protists. Genome Biol. Evol. 5, 418–438. (doi:
567 doi:10.1093/gbe/evt008)
568 26. Eliáš M, Klimeš V, Derelle R, Petrželková R, Tachezy J 2016 A paneukaryotic genomic
569 analysis of the small GTPase RABL2 underscores the significance of recurrent gene loss in
570 eukaryote evolution. Biol. Dir. 11, 5. (doi: 10.1186/s13062-016-0107-8)
571 27. Valach M, Burger G, Gray MW, Lang BF. 2014 Widespread occurrence of organelle
572 genome-encoded 5S rRNAs including permuted molecules. Nucleic Acids Res. 42, 13764–
573 13777. (doi:10.1093/nar/gku1266)
574 2628. Leander BS, Farmer MA. 2000 Comparative morphology of the euglenid pellicle. I.
575 Patterns of strips and pores. J. Eukaryot. Microbiol. 47, 469–479. (doi:10.1111/j.1550-
576 7408.2000.tb00076.x)
577 2729. Heiss AA, Walker G, Simpson AGB. 2013 The microtubular cytoskeleton of the
578 apusomonad Thecamonas, a sister lineage to the opisthokonts. Protist 164, 598–621.
579 (doi:10.1016/j.protis.2013.05.005)
580 2830. Grabherr MG, Haas BJ, Yassour M, Levin JZ, Thompson DA, Amit I, Adiconis X, Fan L,
581 Raychowdhury R, Zeng Q, et al. 2011 Full-length transcriptome assembly from RNA-Seq
582 data without a reference genome. Nat. Biotechnol. 29, 644–652. (doi:10.1038/nbt.1883)
583 2931. Brown MW, Kolisko M, Silberman JD, Roger AJ. 2012 Aggregative multicellularity
584 evolved independently in the eukaryotic supergroup Rhizaria. Curr. Biol. 22, 1–5.
585 (doi:10.1016/j.cub.2012.04.021)
586 3032. Brown MW, Sharpe SC, Silberman JD, Heiss AA, Lang BF, Simpson AGB, Roger AJ
587 2013 Phylogenomics demonstrates that breviate flagellates are related to opisthokonts:
588 implications for the origin of genes involved in multicellularity. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B
589 280, 20131755. (doi:10.1098/rspb.2013.1755)
590 3133. Leger MM, Kolisko M, Kamikawa R, Stairs CW, Kume K, Cepicka I, Silberman JD,
591 Andersson JO, Xu F, Yabuki A, et al. 2017 Organelles that illuminate the origins of
592 Trichomonas hydrogenosomes and Giardia mitosomes. Nat. Ecol. Evol. 1, 0092. (doi:
593 doi:10.1038/s41559-017-0092)
594 3234. Stamatakis A. 2006 RAxML-VI-HPC: Maximum likelihood-based phylogenetic analyses
595 with thousands of taxa and mixed models. Bioinformatics 22, 2688–2690.
596 (doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btl446)
597 3335. Nguyen LT, Schmidt HA, von Haeseler A, Minh BQ. 2015 IQ-TREE: A fast and
598 effective stochastic algorithm for estimating maximum-likelihood phylogenies. Mol. Biol.
599 Evol. 32, 268–274. (doi:10.1093/molbev/msu300)
600 3436. Lartillot N, Rodrigue N, Stubbs D, Richer J. 2013 PhyloBayes MPI: phylogenetic
601 reconstruction with infinite mixtures of profiles in a parallel environment. Syst. Biol. 62,
602 611–615. (doi:10.1093/sysbio/syt022)
603 3537. Susko E, Field C, Blouin C, Roger AJ. 2003 Estimation of rates-across-sites distributions
604 in phylogenetic substitution models. Syst. Biol. 52, 594–603.
605 (doi:10.1080/10635150390235395)
606 3638. Jeffroy O, Brinkmann H, Delsuc F, Philippe H. 2006. Phylogenomics: the beginning of
607 incongruence? Trends Genet. 22, 225–231. (doi:10.1016/j.tig.2006.02.003)
608 3739. Lartillot N, Philippe H. 2008. Improvement of molecular phylogenetic inference and the
609 phylogeny of Bilateria. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci 363, 1463–1472.
610 (doi:10.1098/rstb.2007.2236)
611 3840. Kang S, Tice AK, Spiegel FW, Silberman JD, Pánek T, Cepicka I, Kostka M, Kosakyan
612 A, Alcântara DM, Roger AJ, et al. 2017 Between a pod and a hard test: the deep evolution
613 of amoebae. Mol. Biol. Evol. in press34, 2258–2270. (doi:10.1093/molbev/msx162)
614 3941. Heiss AA, Heiss AW, Lukacs K, Kim E. 2017 The flagellar apparatus of the glaucophyte
615 Cyanophora cuspidata. J. Phycol. in press53, 1120–1150. (doi:10.1111/jpy.12569)
616 4042. Yubuki N, Simpson AGB, Leander BS. 2013 Comprehensive ultrastructure of Kipferlia
617 bialata provides evidence for character evolution within the Fornicata. Protist 164, 423–
618 439. (doi: doi:10.1016/j.protis.2013.02.002)
619 4143. Lara E, Chatzinotas A, Simpson AGB. 2006 Andalucia (n. gen.) — The deepest branch Formatted: Normal, Indent: Left: 0 pi, Hanging: 2.36
pi, Tab stops: Not at 2.36 pi + 4.72 pi + 7.08 pi +
620 within jakobids (Jakobida; Excavata), based on morphological and molecular study of a 9.45 pi + 11.81 pi + 14.17 pi + 16.53 pi + 18.9 pi +
21.26 pi + 23.62 pi + 25.98 pi + 28.35 pi
621 new flagellate from soil. J. Eukaryot. Microbiol. 53, 112–120. (doi:10.1111/j.1550-
622 7408.2005.00081.x)
623
624 4244. Lartillot N, Brinkmann H, Philippe H. 2007 Suppression of long-branch attraction artefacts
625 in the animal phylogeny using a site-heterogeneous model. BMC Evolutionary Biology 7,
626 S4. (doi:10.1186/1471-2148-7-S1-S4)
627 45. Lara E, Chatzinotas A, Simpson, AGB. 2006 Andalucia (gen. nov,): a new taxon for the
628 deepest branch within jakobids (Jakobida; Excavata), based on morphological and
629 molecular study of a new flagellate from soil. J. Eukaryot. Microbiol. 53, 112-120. (doi:
630 10.1111/j.1550-7408.2005.00081.x)
631 43465. Grau-Bové X, Sebé-Pedrós A, Ruiz-Trillo I. 2015 The eukaryotic ancestor had a complex
632 ubiquitin signaling system of archaeal origin. Mol. Biol. Evol. 32, 726–739. (doi:
633 doi:10.1093/molbev/msu334)
634 44476. Pittis AA, Gabaldon T. 2016 Late acquisition of mitochondria by a host with chimeric
635 prokaryotic ancestry. Nature 531, 101–104. (doi:10.1038/nature16941)
636 45487. Fukasawa Y, Oda T, Tomii K, Imai K. 2017 Origin and evolutionary alteration of the
637 mitochondrial import system in eukaryotic lineages. Mol. Biol. Evol. 34, 1574–1586. (doi:
638 doi:10.1093/molbev/msx096)
639 46498. Yabuki A, Nakayama T, Yubuki N, Hashimoto T, Ishida K, Inagaki Y. 2011
640 Tsukubamonas globosa n. gen., n. sp., a novel excavate flagellate possibly holding a key
641 for the early evolution in "Discoba". J. Eukaryot. Microbiol. 58, 319–331. (doi:
642 doi:10.1111/j.1550-7408.2011.00552.x)
643
644 FIGURE LEGENDS
645 Figure 1. Light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) of Gefionella okellyi n. g.
646 n. sp. (a–e) Phase contrast (a–b) and differential interference contrast (c–e) images of live cells,
647 with (e) showing a dividing cell with four flagella in two pairs (arrowheads). (f) SEM, showing
648 ventral view, including feeding groove, and vanes on the posterior flagellum (F1). (g) SEM of
649 anterior end of cell from dorsal side; note origins of the pair of vanes on F1 (distal to origin of
650 vanes, flagellum rotates clockwise with respect to the cell). (h) SEM of posterior end of cell,
651 showing termination of the vanes on F1, and robust nature of the right margin of the posterior end
652 of the feeding groove (in foreground). acro, acroneme; epi, epipodium; F1, posterior flagellum;
653 F2, anterior flagellum; gr, groove. Scale bars: (a–e, in d) 5 µm. (f–g) 1 µm. (g) 1 µm. (h) 1 µm.
654
655 Figure 2. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of G. okellyi. (a) Longitudinal section; note
656 marks for the position of images d and e, detailing the composite fibre (arrowhead). (b) Transverse
657 section, showing architecture of the ventral feeding groove; note compass-rose for orientation. (c)
658 Mitochondrion, showing discoidal cristae (in transverse section). (d, e) Serial sections of posterior
659 part of right margin of the groove, in (same cell as a), showing striated and dense portions of
660 composite fibre (arrowhead), respectively. (f) Transverse section of posterior flagellum (F1),
661 showing vanes. (g) Longitudinal section of proximal portion of posterior flagellum, showing origin
662 of dorsal vane, and striations of its lamella. B1, basal body 1 (of posterior flagellum); B2, basal
663 body 2 (of anterior flagellum); epi, epipodium; F1, posterior flagellum; food, food vacuole; gr,
664 groove; iR2, inner portion of microtubular root 2; mito, mitochondrion; nuc, nucleus; oR2, outer
665 portion of microtubular root 2; R1, microtubular root 1; R3, microtubular root 3; S, singlet
666 microtubular root. Scale bars: (a) 500 nm. (b) 500 nm. (c) 250 nm. (d) 100 nm. (e) 100 nm. (f) 200
667 nm. (g) 250 nm.
668
669 Figure 3. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of fFlagellar apparatus of G. okellyi;,
670 represented by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and computer-based reconstruction3-D
671 modelling flagellar apparatus. (a) Anterior end of cell, showing the flagellar apparatus, including
672 basal body 2 (B2) and the posterior flagellum (F1), with basal body 1 forming itsthe latter’s
673 baseboth basal bodies (B1, B2). (b) Detail of ‘P’ fibre, and section of inconspicuous ‘G’ fibre. (c)
674 Transverse section through basal body 2 (B2), showing origin of microtubular root 3 (R3), and
675 part of dorsal fan. (d) Detail of ‘I’ and ‘B’ fibres associated with microtubular root 2 (seen here
676 just posterior to split into iR2 and oR2); note striations of ‘B’ fibre. (e–i) Series of sections through
677 anterior portion of the cell, showing origins and organization organisation of microtubular
678 elements supporting the ventral groove (and the dense fibre ‘D’ connecting the basal bodies); Note
679 note compass-rose for orientation. The oOrigins of microtubular roots 1 and 2 (R1, R2) are shown
680 in f, origin of the singlet root S in g, division of R2 into iR2 and oR2 in h, origin of ‘B’ fibre in h,
681 and connection of ‘B’ to oR2 in i. (j) Model of proximal portion of flagellar apparatus, rendered
682 from a 21-section series; note compass for orientation. A, ‘A’ fibre; B, ‘B’ fibre; B1, basal body 1
683 (of posterior flagellum); B2, basal body 2 (of anterior flagellum); C, ‘C’ fibre; D, dense fibre; F1,
684 posterior flagellum; F2, anterior flagellum; fan, dorsal fan of microtubules; G, ‘G’ fibre; Gol, Golgi
685 apparatus; gr, groove; I, ‘I’ fibre; iR2, inner portion of microtubular root 2; nuc, nucleus; oR2,
686 outer portion of microtubular root 2; P, ‘P’ fibre; R1–R3, microtubular roots 1–3; S, singlet
687 microtubular root; SB, striated band. Scale bar: (a–i; in a) 200 nm.
688
689 Figure 4. (a) Phylogenetic tree of eukaryotes, based on 159 genes, with all sites and 84 taxa
690 included. Maximum Likelihood (ML) tree shown was inferred under the LG+C60+G4+F model
691 of sequence evolution using IQTREE. For clades summarized as triangles the length shows the
692 average total branch length. ‘Excavata’ is labelled with an asterisk to signify that this clade does
693 not include the ‘excavate taxon’ Malawimonadidae, and to also flag the contested nature of this
694 clade (compare to figure 5). Statistical support valuess are, in order: LG+C60+G4+F model
695 ‘ultrafast’ bootstrap approximation (UFboot) from IQTREE, LG+G4+F model bootstrap support
696 (BP) from RAxML, and CAT-GTR+G4 model Bayesian posterior probabilities (from the two
697 converged chains) in PHYLOBAYES-MPI. Filled circles represent maximal support (i.e.,
698 100/100/1.0). Unlabelled branches received <50% UFboot support, under 70% rapid bootstrap
699 support, and were not recovered by Bayesian analysis. Asterisks denote branches that were not
700 recovered in inferred phylogeny for a given analysis. The full phylogenetic tree is shown in Supp.
701 Fig. 5. (b) Chart depicting ML BP for groups on interests intervals along removal of fast-evolving
702 sites. Y-axis denotes BP and X-axis denotes number of fastest-evolving sites removed. Support
703 for Opisthokonta serves as an indicator of whether sufficient data is left for deep-level phylogenetic
704 inference; other taxa summarised as triangles in Fig 4 a were similarly supported but omitted for
705 clarity (data not shown). (c,d) Heat maps showing BP for a clade of Malawimonadidae+ and
706 Collodictyon clade (c) or a Malawimonadidae+ and Metamonada clade (d) along with respect to
707 removal of fast-evolving sites (X-axis,. iIn thousands) and fast-evolving taxa (Y-axis). White Pure
708 white color denotes 0% BP and full pure red denotes 100% BP (rightmost columns demonstrate
709 the color scale). The bBlack box in d identifies the dataset selected for the full analysis shown in
710 figure 5. The obviously aAnomalous support values observed with removal of Paulinella
711 chromatophora isare likelyprobably the the result of imbalance of taxonomic sampling within the
712 Sar clade, which that has an effect on the overall tree topology of the tree. All analyses in b–dD
713 using used LG+CAT+F model and rapid bootstrapping in RAxML.
714
715 Figure 5. Phylogenetic tree of eukaryotes, based on 159 genes, with 23,000 fast-evolving sites and
716 22 long-branch taxa excluded from initial dataset. Tree shown was inferred under the
717 LG+C60+G4+F model of sequence evolution using IQTREE. Statistical support values are, in
718 order: LG+C60+G4+F model UFboot from IQTREE, LG+G4+F model BP from RAxML, and
719 CAT-GTR+G4 model Bayesian posterior probabilities from PHYLOBAYES-MPI. Filled circles
720 represent maximal support (i.e. 100/100/1). Unlabeled branches received <50% UFboot support.
721 Asterisks denote branches that were not recovered in inferred phylogeny for a given analysis.
722
723 Supplementary Figure 1. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of G. okellyi;: flagellar
724 apparatus and architecture of anterior portion of groove. In all images (except a), the cell’s left is
725 on the right of image, and vice versa. (a) Posterior flagellum, showing terminating a vane (V)
726 terminating. Note striation of vane lamella. (b,c) Sections Non-consecutive sections showing the
727 proximal part of the posterior flagellar apparatus, highlighting origins and substructures of ‘I’ and
728 ‘B’ fibres (supporting the R2 microtubular root, especially the outer ‘oR2’ portion) and ‘C’ fibre
729 (supporting the R1 microtubular root; note also the close association with the R3 microtubular
730 root). (d–g) Non-consecutive series showing the main structures supporting the anterior portion
731 of the ventral groove; . Note the separation between iR2 and oR2, the origin of the ‘G’ fibre against
732 iR2 (in d), termination of the ‘I’ fibre (by e) and C fibre (by g); series also shows the distinct
733 origins of the twoboth flagellar vanes on the posterior flagellum (F1). B1, basal body 1 (of posterior
734 flagellum); C, ‘C’ fibre; D, dense fibre; F1, posterior flagellum; food, food vacuole; G, ‘G’ fibre;
735 Gol, Golgi apparatus; gr, groove; I, ‘I’ fibre; iR2, inner portion of microtubular root 2; mito,
736 mitochondrion; nuc, nucleus; oR2, outer portion of microtubular root 2; P, ‘P’ fibre; R1–R3,
737 microtubular roots 1–3; R1*, microtubule from R1 illustrating beginning of ‘fraying’ of R1;
738 R2MT, individual microtubules derived from the R2; S, singlet microtubular root; V, flagellar
739 vane. Scale bar: (a–g, in a) 200 nm.
740
741
742 Supplementary Figure 2. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of G. okellyi;: groove
743 architecture. (a-–e) Non-consecutive series of oblique sections, focusing on the left half of the
744 groove, showing the microtubular support of the epipodium, and showing formation of the
745 combined iR2/S/R1 microtubule group that supports the left margin of the posterior portion of the
746 groove. (f) High-tilt-angle image of section from the same series as a–e (between d and e) detailing
747 the epipodium elements. (g) Transverse section of groove in middle of cell (ventral is to right of
748 image), showing the microtubular support for the groove margins. (h,i) Near-longitudinal sections
749 focusing on the left half of the groove and epipodium (compare with a–f). (j–l) Near-longitudinal
750 series showing the anterior portion of the right margin of the groove; . note Note the origins and
751 paths of the ‘B’ and ‘G’ fibres, and as well as the R2-derived microtubules (R2MT) between iR2
752 and oR2. B, ‘B’ fibre; B1, basal body 1 (of posterior flagellum); B2, basal body 2 (of anterior
753 flagellum); C, ‘C’ fibre; D, dense fibre; epi, epipodium; F1, posterior flagellum; F2, anterior
754 flagellum; fan, dorsal fan of microtubules; food, food vacuole; G, ‘G’ fibre; Gol, Golgi apparatus;
755 gr, groove; I, ‘I’ fibre; iR2, inner portion of microtubular root 2; mito, mitochondrion; nuc, nucleus;
756 oR2, outer portion of microtubular root 2; P, ‘P’ fibre; R1–R3, microtubular roots 1–3; R2MT,
757 individual microtubules derived from the R2; S, singlet microtubular root; SB, striated band; V,
758 flagellar vane; vac, vacuole. Scale bar: (a–l, in a) 500 nm.
759
760
761 Supplementary Figure 3. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of G. okellyi;: posterior
762 portion of the cell. In all images, the cell’s left is on the right of the image, and vice versa. (a)
763 Oblique section through cell from left-anterior to right-posterior showing the end of the epipodium
764 (on the left margin of the groove), and posterior portion of the right margin of the groove; Note
765 note marks for the position of detail images b and c. (b) Detail of end of epipodium. (c) Detail of
766 the posterior portion of right groove margin, including the composite fibre supporting the remains
767 of oR2. (d–h) Longitudinal sections through the extreme posterior end of the groove, showing
768 composite fibre and oR2 (right margin) meeting the R1/S/iR2 group (left margin). A Note small
769 number of R2-derived microtubules (R2MTs) cross obliquely leftward from the right of the
770 groove, converging to the left before the posterior end of the cell. CF, composite fibre; epi,
771 epipodium; food, food vacuole; gr, groove; iR2, inner portion of microtubular root 2; mito,
772 mitochondrion; nuc, nucleus; oR2, outer portion of microtubular root 2; P, ‘P’ fibre; R1,
773 microtubular root 1; R3, microtubular root 3; R2MTs, individual microtubules derived from the
774 R2; S, singlet microtubular root; vac, vacuole. Scale bars: (a) 500 nm (b–h, in b) 200 nm.
775
776 Supplementary Figure 4. Alternative views of the model of the proximal portion of the flagellar
777 apparatus, rendered from a 21-section series (See Fig. 3j); note compasses for orientation. Note
778 full rendering of flagella in (a) and (g), while; in b–f the basal bodies only are shown, with arrows
779 starting at and showing the direction of flagellar emergence. A, ‘A’ fibre; B, ‘B’ fibre; B1, basal
780 body 1 (of posterior flagellum); B2, basal body 2 (of anterior flagellum); C, ‘C’ fibre; D, dense
781 fibre; F1, posterior flagellum; F2, anterior flagellum; fan, dorsal fan of microtubules; G, ‘G’ fibre;
782 I, ‘I’ fibre; iR2, inner portion of microtubular root 2; oR2, outer portion of microtubular root 2; P,
783 ‘P’ fibre; R1–R3, microtubular roots 1–3; S, singlet microtubular root; SB, striated band; V, vane
784 (on F1).
785
786 Supplementary Figure 5. Full phylogenetic tree corresponding to the summary tree shown in Fig.
787 4a, . Analysis based on 159 genes, with all sites and 84 taxa included. Maximum Likelihood
788 likelihood (ML) tree shown was inferred under the LG+C60+G4+F model of sequence evolution
789 using IQTREE. Statistical support values are, in order: LG+C60+G4+F model ultrafast bootstrap
790 approximation (UFboot) from IQTREE, LG+G4+F model bootstrap support (BP) from RAxML,
791 and CAT-GTR+G4 model Bayesian posterior probabilities (from the two converged chains) in
792 PHYLOBAYES-MPI. Filled circles represent maximal support (i.e., 100/100/1.0). Asterisks denote
793 branches that were not recovered in inferred phylogeny for a given analysis. Taxa in pink represent
794 ‘other Diaphoretickes’, not a hypothesized major group. ‘Excavata’ is labelled with an asterisk to
795 signify that this clade does not include the the ‘excavate taxon’ Malawimonadidae, and to also flag
796 the contested nature of this clade (compare to figure 5).
797
798 Supplementary Figure 6. Heat map showing RAxML rapid bootstrap support (BP) for clade of
799 Discoba and Metamonada with removal of fast-evolving sites (X-axis, in thousands) and fast-
800 evolving taxa (Y-axis). Pure White white color denotes 0 % BP and full pure red denotes 100%
801 BP (right-most column — “BP” — demonstrates the color scale). Analyses performed using
802 LG+CAT+F model and rapid bootstrapping in RAxML.
Society Open
