Atypical residency of short-beaked common dolphins
(Delphinus delphis) to a shallow, urbanized embayment in
south-eastern Australia
Suzanne Mason, Chandra Salgado Kent, David Donnelly, Jeffrey Weir and Kerstin
Bilgmann
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160478.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160478
Review timeline
Original submission: 14 November 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 15 July 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 25 August 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 26 August 2016
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150620.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Nick Kellar)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There is sufficient supporting data within the manuscript that is accessible to the readers.
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This study presents strong evidence of local embayment residency (confined within a small
geographic area) for a small group of short-beaked common dolphins, a species which is
generally known to have large geographic pelagic home ranges. Moreover, the authors used data
gathered via photo identification illustrating that the technique can be used with this species,
which some researchers have thought to have too few physical markings for individual
identification. Though both of these findings have been documented in other populations of
common dolphins the strength of evidence and the uniquely small size of the population attest to
the utility of this study for publication.
The manuscript provides a robust dataset that strongly supports the authors’ conclusions. The
statistical analysis is sufficient given the goals of the stud, and all aspects of the research are well
illustrated in the figures and tables presented.
I find only minor weakness to the manuscript:
1) The discussion about potential reasons why these common dolphins use the bay is
focused solely on the nutritional advantages of predicable preg sources. To fully form this
argument some of the potential disadvantages (if they are known) of living within the bay should
be presented juxtaposed to the nutritional advantages, otherwise the question would be what
aren’t all common dolphins living within embayments where prey are more predictable and of
higher quality. There is some discussion about the threats under the management section but it
isn’t clear that the authors see this as the balancing habitat factor that might keep other common
dolphins from inhabiting the bay. This discussion in its present state is just not fully developed.
See the “Spatial patterns” discussion in:
Kellar, Nicholas M., et al. "Pregnancy patterns of pantropical spotted dolphins (Stenella
attenuata) in the eastern tropical Pacific determined from hormonal analysis of blubber biopsies
and correlations with the purse-seine tuna fishery." Marine Biology 160.12 (2013): 3113-3124.
These authors merely admit they don’t know the potential disadvantage. That’s not very
satisfying but they do complete the discussion so it becomes fully developed.
2) An estimate of the fraction of animals that are unmarked (or not sufficiently marked) vs
marked and of the trend in this fraction would greatly help finish this paper. From a population
biologist’s perspective these last two pieces of information can help GREATLY in the
understanding of this group of animals as a potential management unit and provide a better
foundation for comparisons to similar groups within or across species by giving evidence of the
proportion of non-adults inhibiting the area and their trend through time. Robust information
has been provided it would be a shame not to present these last components. Similar in effect to
almost completing the assembly of a 1000-peice puzzle and not having those last few pieces. In a
similar way, it would be good to know more about the one adult that wasn’t first identified until
2012; does the marking evidence more consistent with that animal (10002) actually coordinating
3
from outside the Bay or it was already present and it just didn’t become distractive until that
time.
3) Finally the manuscript is much too long given the content (perhaps by two pages) to the
point where it is distracting. I would recommend strongly reducing the following sections:
a. Methods – “Study Site” and all “…survey routes” sections (all three).
b. Discussion – Greatly reduce the 2nd paragraph, page 18 and the sections of the
“Management implications” and remove the 3rd paragraph, page 22.
Altogether this was an excellent manuscript!
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Brian Balmer)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It appears all data are presented in manuscript.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached. See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150620)
10-Feb-2016
Dear Ms Mason:
Manuscript ID RSOS-150620 entitled "Atypical residency of short-beaked common dolphins
(Delphinus delphis) to a shallow, urbanised embayment in south-eastern Australia" which you
submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are
included at the bottom of this letter.
4
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 09-Aug-2016. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
We look forward to receiving your resubmission.
Sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of
Kevin Padian, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Phillip Clapham):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Both referees have indicated the interesting and potentially useful nature of this manuscript, but
both have raised some substantial scientific issues that must be addressed before the paper can be
considered appropriate for publication. The primary issues are:
1. Excessive length of the MS. In particular, I would suggest condensing the Discussion
significantly.
2. Definition of residency. One referee (#2) has raised an important point with regard to this, and
given useful suggestions for how data should be reanalyzed. This will not be a trivial
undertaking, but it is likely essential. Claims regarding residency/site fidelity must be
supported, particularly given that the authors make a recommendation with regard to how this
population is managed.
3. Existence within the population of insufficiently marked or unmarked animals. This is very
important in such studies, and referee 1 has provided some useful input on this topic.
4. Definition of "community", including relative to those used by other delphinid studies.
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
5
This is an interesting study which documents the identifiable and likely residency of a small
population of common dolphins. The paper is rather too long, and I would suggest that both the
Introduction and Discussion be condensed. Indeed, I suspect this study was part of a thesis, since
it looks rather like the sort of product a graduate student is expected to produce to demonstrate
wide reading, with more extensive references and detail than are warranted for a journal article.
It would be helpful if the authors would address the topic of whether the variability in natural
markings and scars observed in this small population suggests that these photo-id features could
be used to reliably identify individuals in a larger population.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This study presents strong evidence of local embayment residency (confined within a small
geographic area) for a small group of short-beaked common dolphins, a species which is
generally known to have large geographic pelagic home ranges. Moreover, the authors used data
gathered via photo identification illustrating that the technique can be used with this species,
which some researchers have thought to have too few physical markings for individual
identification. Though both of these findings have been documented in other populations of
common dolphins the strength of evidence and the uniquely small size of the population attest to
the utility of this study for publication.
The manuscript provides a robust dataset that strongly supports the authors’ conclusions. The
statistical analysis is sufficient given the goals of the stud, and all aspects of the research are well
illustrated in the figures and tables presented.
I find only minor weakness to the manuscript:
1) The discussion about potential reasons why these common dolphins use the bay is
focused solely on the nutritional advantages of predicable preg sources. To fully form this
argument some of the potential disadvantages (if they are known) of living within the bay should
be presented juxtaposed to the nutritional advantages, otherwise the question would be what
aren’t all common dolphins living within embayments where prey are more predictable and of
higher quality. There is some discussion about the threats under the management section but it
isn’t clear that the authors see this as the balancing habitat factor that might keep other common
dolphins from inhabiting the bay. This discussion in its present state is just not fully developed.
See the “Spatial patterns” discussion in:
Kellar, Nicholas M., et al. "Pregnancy patterns of pantropical spotted dolphins (Stenella
attenuata) in the eastern tropical Pacific determined from hormonal analysis of blubber biopsies
and correlations with the purse-seine tuna fishery." Marine Biology 160.12 (2013): 3113-3124.
These authors merely admit they don’t know the potential disadvantage. That’s not very
satisfying but they do complete the discussion so it becomes fully developed.
2) An estimate of the fraction of animals that are unmarked (or not sufficiently marked) vs
marked and of the trend in this fraction would greatly help finish this paper. From a population
biologist’s perspective these last two pieces of information can help GREATLY in the
understanding of this group of animals as a potential management unit and provide a better
foundation for comparisons to similar groups within or across species by giving evidence of the
proportion of non-adults inhibiting the area and their trend through time. Robust information
has been provided it would be a shame not to present these last components. Similar in effect to
almost completing the assembly of a 1000-peice puzzle and not having those last few pieces. In a
6
similar way, it would be good to know more about the one adult that wasn’t first identified until
2012; does the marking evidence more consistent with that animal (10002) actually coordinating
from outside the Bay or it was already present and it just didn’t become distractive until that
time.
3) Finally the manuscript is much too long given the content (perhaps by two pages) to the
point where it is distracting. I would recommend strongly reducing the following sections:
a. Methods – “Study Site” and all “…survey routes” sections (all three).
b. Discussion – Greatly reduce the 2nd paragraph, page 18 and the sections of the
“Management implications” and remove the 3rd paragraph, page 22.
Altogether this was an excellent manuscript!
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached. See Appendix A.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150620)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-160478.R0 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Brian Balmer)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
7
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have put in a commendable amount of effort to address all of the edits/comments by
the reviewers and editors. The manuscript is well-written, will be a useful contribution to the
marine mammal field, and a strong fit for publication in the journal Royal Society Open Science.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160478)
19-Aug-2016
Dear Ms Mason
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160478 entitled
"Atypical residency of short-beaked common dolphins (Delphinus delphis) to a shallow, urbanised
embayment in south-eastern Australia" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the
referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160478
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
8
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 28-Aug-2016). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
9
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
The authors have expended a considerable amount of effort to revise their manuscript in
accordance with the referees' comments, and have also organized their response in such a way
that it makes it much easier for an editor to see clearly what has been changed. The paper -
which will be of interest to researchers studying this species - is now tightened up and is
acceptable for publication.
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have put in a commendable amount of effort to address all of the edits/comments by
the reviewers and editors. The manuscript is well-written, will be a useful contribution to the
marine mammal field, and a strong fit for publication in the journal Royal Society Open Science.
eral Comments
s manuscript is very well-written with a thorough introduction, detailed methods, and an in-depth
ussion. The one major concern is in the results and how the authors are classifying residency based
n the available data. The current definitions of sighting rates/residency do not seem appropriate;
dent (sighted > 10% across seasons) and/or long-term residents (sighted >30% across seasons/years);
re are the animals for the other 90% or 70% of time, respectively? In my opinion, the sighting rates
these definitions are low and indicate that the animals sighted have ranges extending outside of the
ey area; they have some degree of site fidelity to the region but classifications as residents or long-
residents seems like a stretch. The authors need to justify why these low sighting rates are
eptable for considering animal residency to the survey area. One option to consider is that in fact
e animals are residents and there may be bias in where individuals are sighted between the different
ey routes/types/regions. As opposed to lumping all survey types/regions together perhaps look at site
lity for individuals within each survey type. For example, including the offshore and inshore transects
ther to estimate sighting rate/site fidelity is why your sighting rates are so low if these animals have
es in which they are primarily sighted in either inshore or offshore waters. Another option is group
mals by # of times sighted by season/year and then provide site fidelity classifications (e.g. instead of
urveys, cut it down to the 21 seasons and how many times animal X was sighted across these). If
e modifications to the site fidelity analyses result in higher sighting rates, the conclusions presented in
manuscript seem justifiable. If the sighting rates are still low, I suggest modifying the conclusions of
manuscript and suggesting that a small number of common dolphins have a moderate degree of site
lity to this region and expand in the discussion for future studies to fully assess these animals ranging
erns (i.e. extending survey boundaries to identify movements outside of the study area).
The one other concern I have with this manuscript is using the term community for the ~13 adult
mals sighted in this region. It would be useful to discuss if there are other studies that have defined
munities with such small animal numbers. Additionally, building upon in the discussion where the
etic exchange may be coming from (i.e. immigration/emigration, males from outside of the region?)
what future research is necessary to investigate other communities in adjacent waters. Providing
lts of the number of calves and subadults sighted as well as calf survivorship would be very
resting here. Overall, this is a very interesting study and a great use of multiple long-term datasets.
suggestion to make this manuscript acceptable for publication is to rethink how the data are analyzed
classified with regards to site fidelity and residency patterns.
cific Comments
es 41-45: Nice literature review of anthropogenic stressors and citations for each. Along with risk of
ase from pollution may be of use to note immune and reproductive effects as well (e.g. Schwacke et
012, Schwacke et al. 2014). See next two comments as well for some other considerations that might
ngthen this section.
e 43: Not too familiar with term xenobiotic contamination, are the authors referring to biotoxins here
. Schwacke et al. 2010)?
e 44: The authors touch on heavy metals, but many studies have investigated impacts associated with
istent organochlorine pollutants, may be of value to include one or two citations here for these
ropogenic stressors (e.g. Balmer et al. 2011).
es 49-71: The term residency has been used in many studies and unfortunately few studies go into
il about actually defining this term. For example, it is fair to say that in Shark Bay and Sarasota Bay,
e is multi-generational, long-term residency or site fidelity of dolphins to these estuaries. For some of
other studies referenced, this level of detail is not possible and depends on the duration of the project.
ay be of value to touch on the different studies/datasets referenced here and note the different
racterizations of residency depending on the study. Another consideration may be to use the term site
lity over residency and discuss different degrees/levels of site fidelity. If you can say for certain that
study area is encompassing the entire range and movements of a community, then residency may be
ppropriate term. However, in many studies, animals may have high site fidelity to a given field site,
they may be resident to a larger area outside of the field site boundaries.
e 138: “where” should be “were” I think?
e 210: May want to indicate “Dorsal” fin identification, depending on the scope of the journal.
es 230-233: Sighting rate definitions here could also be used as a site fidelity classification; low,
erate, and high. For bottlenose dolphins in the southeastern U.S., a resident was defined as being
ted greater than 50% in a given year and estuary (Rosel et al. 2011). Being sighted in only 30% of
eys seems relatively low to be considered to have high sighting rate/site fidelity. The definition of a
dent as an animal seen as little as 10% of the surveys seems very low and an inappropriate
sification. Is there a justification for using these classifications?
es 240-241: I agree with the sentence here that long-term residents are those animals with a high
ting rate and resighted across multiple seasons. However, as defined, a long-term resident may have
been sighted in 30% of surveys, even if sighted across multiple seasons, I think it is difficult to
sider that animal a resident or a long-term resident.
es 266-267: Were any calculations performed to estimate proportion of non-distinct animals? This
ms like a very low number of individuals sighted, is this because majority of animals are non-distinct
re there only 13 adult dolphins in this region?
le 3: This table is very helpful to get an idea of sighting rates of individuals throughout the study. A
mn with percentage of surveys sighted in (X/48) for each individual would be of use to visually
pare the amount of time each individual is sighted across the study period. The seasons column is not
elpful, perhaps just a 1-4 here indicating if an animal has been sighted in each season regardless of
r would be more helpful, and an additional column “year” for # of years sighted? To me, this table
there are certainly individuals sighted in the region throughout seasons showing some degree of site
lity, but the majority of individuals are still sighted in less than 50% of surveys which to me indicates
the survey area is not completely including the animals’ full ranging patterns. The other hypothesis is
by lumping the offshore and inshore survey areas, the sighting rate is much less, might be worth
sidering looking at site fidelity within each area?
es 276-285: The sighting rate and site fidelity classifications do not seem appropriate for the # of
es an individual is sighted throughout this study.
es 294-295: The defined community is only 13 adult individuals, what about numbers of subadults and
es? This seems like a very low # of animals to be in a community. Would be of use to include
mate of total number of animals in community (adults/subadults/calves). Even if it is difficult to
tify unmarked animals outside of a single sighting, calculating a distinctiveness rate across sightings
ld provide an indication of overall community size.
es 323, 329: Do not agree with the terms long-term resident and consistent sightings based on the data
ch show relatively low sighting rates.
es 336-337: Based on the low sighting rates, the authors need to provide more justifications for why
feel there are low immigration/emigration rates. Minimally from a genetics standpoint, a closed
ulation of 13 adult animals does not seem sustainable.
es 370-372: Was there any effort to estimate survival rates of calves across this study?
es 468-474: Authors touch on temporary emigration here. This section should be expanded, based on
low sighting rates; one hypothesis is that animals are likely using areas outside of the survey
ndaries. Are there additional photo-id catalogs that can be compared to see where these animals may
oing? Future studies to expand surveys to identify where the animals are going or other animals
ing into survey area?
es 475-477: In reading through the manuscript, it may be of value to consider separating the
ematic and non-systematic surveys or the “inshore” and “offshore” transects and then developing site
lity/sighting rate classifications. This may be a better way to present the data and illustrate the long-
residency that the authors consider the dolphins in this region to have.
es 534-535: Be good to state here the importance of collecting genetic samples from these animals to
uate in relation to the rest of MU4.
References
mer, B. C., L. H. Schwacke, R. S. Wells, R. C. George, J. Hoguet, J. R. Kucklick, S. M. Lane, A.
Martinez, W. A. McLellan, P. E. Rosel, T. K. Rowles, K. Sparks, T. Speakman, E. S. Zolman,
and D. A. Pabst. 2011. Relationship between persistent organic pollutants (POPs) and ranging
patterns in common bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) from coastal Georgia, USA. Science
of the Total Environment 409:2094-2101.
el, P. E., K. D. Mullin, L. Garrison, L. S. Schwacke, J. Adams, B. Balmer, P. Conn, M. J. Conroy, T.
Eguchi, A. Gorgone, A. Hohn, M. Mazzoil, C. Schwarz, C. Sinclair, T. Speakman, K. Urian, N.
Vollmer, P. Wade, R. Wells, and E. Zolman. 2011. Photo-identification capture-mark-recapture
techniques for estimating abundance of bay, sound, and estuary populations of bottlenose
dolphins along the U.S. east coast and Gulf of Mexico: a workshop report. NOAA Technical
Memorandum NMFS-SEFSC-621, 30 pp.
wacke, L. H., C. R. Smith, F. I. Townsend, R. S. Wells, L. B. Hart, B. C. Balmer, T. K. Collier, S. De
Guise, M. M. Fry, and L. J. Guillette Jr. 2014. Health of common bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops
truncatus) in Barataria Bay, Louisiana, following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Environmental
Science and Technology 48:93-103.
wacke, L. H., M. J. Twiner, S. De Guise, B. C. Balmer, R. S. Wells, F. I. Townsend, D. C. Rotstein,
R. A. Varela, L. J. Hansen, E. S. Zolman, T. R. Spradlin, M. Levin, H. Leibrecht, Z. Wang, and
T. K. Rowles. 2010. Eosinophilia and biotoxin exposure in bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops
truncatus) from a population impacted by repeated mortality events. Environmental Research
110:548-555.
wacke, L. H., E. S. Zolman, B. C. Balmer, S. DeGuise, R. C. George, J. Hoguet, A. A. Hohn, J. R.
Kucklick, S. Lamb, M. Levin, J. A. Litz, W. E. McFee, N. J. Place, F. I. Townsend, R. S. Wells,
and T. K. Rowles. 2012. Anemia, hypothyroidism and immune suppression associated with
polychlorinated biphenyl exposure in bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) Proceedings of the
Royal Society B-Biological Sciences 279:48-57.
Responses to Reviewer comments
Atypical residency of short-beaked common dolphins (Delphinus delphis) to a
shallow, urbanised embayment in south-eastern Australia
Authors Suzanne Mason1, 2, Chandra Salgado Kent2, David Donnelly1, Jeff Weir1, Kerstin Bilgmann3
1
The Dolphin Research Institute (DRI), P.O Box 77, Hastings, Victoria, 3915, Australia
2
Centre of Marine Science and Technology (CMST), Curtin University, GPO Box U1987, Perth,
Western Australia 6845, Australia
3
Department of Biological Science, Macquarie University, North Ryde, Sydney, NSW 9 2109,
Australia
Reviewer 1
General comments:
This study presents strong evidence of local embayment residency (confined within a small
geographic area) for a small group of short-beaked common dolphins, a species which is generally
known to have large geographic pelagic home ranges. Moreover, the authors used data gathered via
photo identification illustrating that the technique can be used with this species, which some
researchers have thought to have too few physical markings for individual identification. Though both
of these findings have been documented in other populations of common dolphins the strength of
evidence and the uniquely small size of the population attest to the utility of this study for publication.
The manuscript provides a robust dataset that strongly supports the authors’ conclusions. The
statistical analysis is sufficient given the goals of the study, and all aspects of the research are well
llustrated in the figures and tables presented.
I find only minor weakness to the manuscript:
1) The discussion about potential reasons why these common dolphins use the bay is focused solely
on the nutritional advantages of predicable prey sources. To fully form this argument some of the
potential disadvantages (if they are known) of living within the bay should be presented juxtaposed to
the nutritional advantages, otherwise the question would be what aren’t all common dolphins living
within embayments where prey are more predictable and of higher quality. There is some discussion
about the threats under the management section but it isn’t clear that the authors see this as the
balancing habitat factor that might keep other common dolphins from inhabiting the bay. This
discussion in its present state is just not fully developed. See the “Spatial patterns” discussion in:
Kellar, Nicholas M., et al. "Pregnancy patterns of pantropical spotted dolphins (Stenella attenuata) in
the eastern tropical Pacific determined from hormonal analysis of blubber biopsies and correlations
These authors merely admit they don’t know the potential disadvantage. That’s not very satisfying but
they do complete the discussion so it becomes fully developed.
Authors’ response: We agree with the reviewer and the section is now supplemented with text that
offers a balanced discussion: page 15, lines 341-347: ‘However, prey targeted by common dolphins is
ikely not abundant enough to sustain a larger dolphin community in the bay, and resource
competition with little penguins [85] and resource overlap with bottlenose dolphins [88] may contribute
to this. It is possible that prey requirements of the female-dominated adult community, along with the
requirements of calves and sub-adult dolphins may represent the current carrying capacity for
common dolphins in this urbanised bay.
2) An estimate of the fraction of animals that are unmarked (or not sufficiently marked) vs marked
and of the trend in this fraction would greatly help finish this paper. From a population biologist’s
perspective these last two pieces of information can help GREATLY in the understanding of this
group of animals as a potential management unit and provide a better foundation for comparisons to
similar groups within or across species by giving evidence of the proportion of non-adults inhibiting
the area and their trend through time. Robust information has been provided it would be a shame not
to present these last components. Similar in effect to almost completing the assembly of a 1000-peice
puzzle and not having those last few pieces. In a similar way, it would be good to know more about
the one adult that wasn’t first identified until 2012; does the marking evidence more consistent with
that animal (10002) actually coordinating from outside the Bay or it was already present and it just
didn’t become distractive until that time.
<U+F0B7> Marked versus unmarked animals in the bay
Authors’ response: All 13 adult common dolphins have marked dorsal fins, albeit, some are
marginally distinct and so were included in the study. The percentage of unmarked adult animals in
the Port Phillip Bay common dolphin community is therefore 0 %. A statement to explain this has
been included in the manuscript as has an overall of the community size estimated to consist of 30
dolphins, which includes calves and sub-adults (unmarked). Refer to page 11, lines 235– 238 and 249
– 253 respectively.
<U+F0B7> Animal 10002, first identified in 2012
Authors’ response: The adult dolphin first identified in 2012 is likely an adult from outside the bay
that joined the embayment community and not a sub-adult unmarked animal that has become
distinctly marked as the age class does not match. Furthermore, the dorsal fin of this animal shows
clear differences to that of the animal that disappeared from the bay around the same time and is
therefore not the same animal. This is now noted in the manuscript on page 14, lines 310 – 313; ‘After
dentified in the community in 2012, and another (dolphin 10101) that was not re-sighted after late
2012, both individuals distinctively different in their dorsal fin markings.’
3) Finally the manuscript is much too long given the content (perhaps by two pages) to the point
where it is distracting. I would recommend strongly reducing the following sections:
a. Methods – “Study Site” and all “…survey routes” sections (all three).
b. Discussion – Greatly reduce the 2nd paragraph, page 18 and the sections of the “Management
mplications” and remove the 3rd paragraph, page 22.
Authors’ response: The Introduction, Methods, Results and Discussion have now been considerably
reduced. The total manuscript length is now reduced by 2 pages. We specifically paid attention to
shortening and deleting the sections reviewer 1 refers to and thank him for pointing this out.
Reviewer 2
General Comments:
This manuscript is very well-written with a thorough introduction, detailed methods, and an in-depth
discussion. The one major concern is in the results and how the authors are classifying residency
based upon the available data. The current definitions of sighting rates/residency do not seem
appropriate; resident (sighted > 10 % across seasons) and/or long-term residents (sighted >30%
across seasons/years); where are the animals for the other 90 % or 70% of time, respectively? In my
opinion, the sighting rates for these definitions are low and indicate that the animals sighted have
ranges extending outside of the survey area; they have some degree of site fidelity to the region but
classifications as residents or long-term residents seems like a stretch. The authors need to justify
why these low sighting rates are acceptable for considering animal residency to the survey area. One
option to consider is that in fact these animals are residents and there may be bias in where
ndividuals are sighted between the different survey routes/types/regions. As opposed to lumping all
survey types/regions together perhaps look at site fidelity for individuals within each survey type. For
example, including the offshore and inshore transects together to estimate sighting rate/site fidelity is
why your sighting rates are so low if these animals have ranges in which they are primarily sighted in
either inshore or offshore waters. Another option is group animals by # of times sighted by
season/year and then provide site fidelity classifications (e.g. instead of 48 surveys, cut it down to the
21 seasons and how many times animal X was sighted across these). If these modifications to the
site fidelity analyses result in higher sighting rates, the conclusions presented in the manuscript seem
ustifiable. If the sighting rates are still low, I suggest modifying the conclusions of the manuscript and
suggesting that a small number of common dolphins have a moderate degree of site fidelity to this
region and expand in the discussion for future studies to fully assess these animals ranging patterns
(i.e. extending survey boundaries to identify movements outside of the study area). The one other
concern I have with this manuscript is using the term community for the ~13 adult animals sighted in
such small animal numbers. Additionally, building upon in the discussion where the genetic exchange
may be coming from (i.e. immigration/emigration, males from outside of the region?) and what future
research is necessary to investigate other communities in adjacent waters. Providing results of the
number of calves and subadults sighted as well as calf survivorship would be very interesting here.
Overall, this is a very interesting study and a great use of multiple long-term datasets.
My suggestion to make this manuscript acceptable for publication is to rethink how the data are
analyzed and classified with regards to site fidelity and residency patterns.
nse:
Community of dolphins:
We used the definition in Wells et al. (1987) where groups were considered to be stable social units
and a community was defined as a collection of groups. This paper describes the equivalent collection
of groups that comprise the Port Phillip Bay common dolphin community. Furthermore, it would be
nappropriate to call the study animals a population or subpopulation, as the extent of genetic
exchange with dolphins outside the bay is currently unknown.
Residency:
We re-analysed our data according to the suggestions of reviewer 2 across 21 seasons and had
better sighting rates than if considering the sighting rates across all surveys (displayed in bold in the
table below). We also analysed inshore and offshore surveys separately, as suggested by the
reviewers.
In the manuscript we now use the definition of residency of > 50 % sightings across the 21 seasons
adopted from Rosel et al. (2011) and included a table in the manuscript with sighting rates across
seasons (page 27, Table 3 in manuscript). As a result, 10 of the 13 identified adult common dolphins
n Port Phillip Bay had sighting rates between 52.4 % and 85.7 %, and were therefore considered
residents.
Sighting Sighting rate Inshore surveys Offshore
rate across seasons only sighting surveys only
across all rate sighting rate
surveys
0000 45.8 61.9 45.0 25.0
7000 64.6 85.7 72.5 12.5
8000 33.3 57.1 32.5 0.0
9001 62.5 85.7 70.0 0.0
10000 47.9 66.7 50.0 12.5
10001 33.3 42.9 35.0 0.0
10002 6.3 14.3 5.0 12.5
10100 45.8 71.4 50.0 12.5
10101 39.6 52.4 45.0 0.0
10102 58.3 71.4 62.5 12.5
10103 41.7 66.7 45.0 0.0
Dolphin ID
10104 39.6 66.7 42.5 0.0
10300 29.2 42.9 35.0 0.0
No of resident
3 10 6 0
adults
Genetic exchange:
According to the suggestion of reviewer 2, the manuscript now states, page 17, lines 401 - 410: ‘The
evel of genetic exchange of common dolphin community inside Port Phillip Bay with the previously
dentified larger Management Unit of common dolphins outside the bay [MU4 in 41] is currently
unknown. Common dolphins from Port Phillip Bay were not included in Bilgmann et al [41]. However,
because of the small size of the local common dolphin community in Port Phillip Bay, it is expected
that some genetic exchange exists with the population of common dolphins outside the bay,
potentially mediated via male-biased dispersal (i.e. males visiting the bay to interbreed with local
females). This potentially facilitates sufficient genetic exchange to avoid inbreeding and allow long-
term sustainability of the common dolphin community in the bay.’
Future research:
According to the suggestions of reviewer 2, we changed the following paragraph in the manuscript
page 21, lines 508 – 521, to: ‘The residency of around 30 common dolphins (including adults, sub-
adults and calves) to the relatively shallow and urbanised Port Phillip Bay is atypical for this species.
The proximity to humans in the bay makes this small dolphin community particularly vulnerable to
anthropogenic impacts. A further concern is the sustainability of such a small number of dolphins in
the embayment given that the level of genetic exchange with dolphins outside the bay is unknown.
Future research is needed to clarify the level of gene flow of the resident common dolphin community
with common dolphins outside the bay, and the genetic diversity within the community. This is
n Port Phillip Bay, inbreeding may occur potentially reducing the dolphins’ reproductive fitness. Low
genetic diversity may also reduce the ability of the resident common dolphin community to adapt to
human-induced impacts and/or environmental change thus reducing chances of long-term
sustainability in the bay.’
Specific comments:
Lines 41-45: Nice literature review of anthropogenic stressors and citations for each. Along with risk
of disease from pollution may be of use to note immune and reproductive effects as well (e.g.
Schwacke et al. 2012, Schwacke et al. 2014). See next two comments as well for some other
considerations that might strengthen this section.
Authors’ response: We appreciate the positive response of reviewer 2. Immune and reproductive
effects have now been added, page 3, lines 42-50: ‘Potential impacts from human activities include a
reduced prey availability due to over-fishing [3, 4], marine debris entanglements [5, 6], boat-strike
from recreational boat traffic [e.g. 7, 8, 9], acoustic masking of communications from underwater noise
[e.g. 10, 11], PCB’s and organochloride contamination [e.g 12, 13, 14], bioaccumulation of heavy
metals such as mercury [15], and potential increased risk of disease from pollution and increased
stress [16, 17]. These anthropogenic impacts can affect the health, survival and reproductive success
of individuals and therefore the long-term existence of resident delphinid communities in urbanised
regions, in particular when communities are small.’
Line 43: Not too familiar with term xenobiotic contamination, are the authors referring to biotoxins
here (e.g. Schwacke et al. 2010)?
Authors’ response: We followed the reviewer’s suggestions and replaced the term xenobiotic with
PCBS’s and organochlorides, the latter being biotoxins.
Line 44: The authors touch on heavy metals, but many studies have investigated impacts associated
with persistent organochlorine pollutants, may be of value to include one or two citations here for
these anthropogenic stressors (e.g. Balmer et al. 2011).
Authors’ response: Citations from Balmer et al. (2011) are now included in the manuscript as
suggested.
Lines 49-71: The term residency has been used in many studies and unfortunately few studies go
nto detail about actually defining this term. For example, it is fair to say that in Shark Bay and
Sarasota Bay, there is multi-generational, long-term residency or site fidelity of dolphins to these
the duration of the project. It may be of value to touch on the different studies/datasets referenced
here and note the different characterizations of residency depending on the study. Another
consideration may be to use the term site fidelity over residency and discuss different degrees/levels
of site fidelity. If you can say for certain that the study area is encompassing the entire range and
movements of a community, then residency may be an appropriate term. However, in many studies,
animals may have high site fidelity to a given field site, but they may be resident to a larger area
outside of the field site boundaries.’
We agree with the reviewer that residency and site fidelity are often used in a range of different
contexts and need to be assessed on a case by case basis, depending on a range of factors including
ength of data collection, size of study area, the species’ ecology, etc. In our study we present a long-
term dataset (2007- 2014) of re-sighting the same common dolphins in the study area. A subset of the
data shows that 10 of the 13 dolphins are observed in the study area around 50 - 70 % of the time
when analysing combined inshore and offshore surveys across 21 seasons (see table above).
Residency
We added to the manuscript page 9, lines 204 - 207: ‘For this study, individuals were considered
residents if they were recorded in Port Phillip Bay for more than 50 % of the seasons during the study
period. This was adopted from Rosel et al. [71] where individuals were considered residents when
they spent >50 % of their time in a specific area in a given year.’
Range of movement of the common dolphin community
Most of the animals were sighted inshore, and only on very few occasions offshore (refer to table
above). This indicates that the study area was likely to be larger than the core range of the animals,
.e. that the size of the study area was appropriate or potentially even too large, hence the extremely
ow sighing rates during offshore surveys. The location in which the common dolphins were sighted
the majority of the time, the inshore area, was also the area with distinct bottom topography, a feature
often preferred by short-beaked common dolphins.
Line 138: “where” should be “were” I think?
Authors’ response: ‘Where’ has been corrected to ‘were’.
Line 210: May want to indicate “Dorsal” fin identification, depending on the scope of the journal.
Authors’ response: The authors have included the word dorsal in the sentence indicating dorsal fin
dentification.
Lines 230-233: Sighting rate definitions here could also be used as a site fidelity classification; low,
moderate, and high. For bottlenose dolphins in the southeastern U.S., a resident was defined as
being sighted greater than 50 % in a given year and estuary (Rosel et al. 2011). Being sighted in only
30 % of surveys seems relatively low to be considered to have high sighting rate/site fidelity. The
definition of a resident as an animal seen as little as 10 % of the surveys seems very low and an
nappropriate classification. Is there a justification for using these classifications?
Authors’ response: We now have changed this according to the reviewers’ suggestions. See
response above referring to the original manuscript lines 49-71.
Lines 240-241: I agree with the sentence here that long-term residents are those animals with a high
sighting rate and resighted across multiple seasons. However, as defined, a long-term resident may
have only been sighted in 30 % of surveys, even if sighted across multiple seasons, I think it is difficult
to consider that animal a resident or a long-term resident.
Authors’ response: See response explaining the definition of residency above (original manuscript
ines 49-71). In addition, the use of the term ‘long-term resident’ has been removed from the
manuscript and we now only refer to ‘resident’.
Lines 266-267: Were any calculations performed to estimate proportion of non-distinct animals? This
seems like a very low number of individuals sighted, is this because majority of animals are non-
distinct or are there only 13 adult dolphins in this region?
Authors’ response: We were able to identify all adults of the common dolphin community in Port
Phillip Bay. The total number of unidentified animals has been estimated to be around 17 individuals,
the unidentifiable individuals being calves or sub-adults. This has now been referred to in the text of
the manuscript and the following explanatory text was included page 11, lines 237 – 238, ‘No
observed adults were unmarked or unidentifiable’, page 12, lines 269 - 270: ‘All individuals with non-
distinct dorsal fins were calves and sub-adults’, along with page 11, lines 249 - 253: ‘The common
dolphin community is considered to be small, based on the numbers of adult common dolphins,
calves born during the study period, and sub-adult individuals sighted in groups separate to the adults
and calf groups. In total, the Port Phillip Bay common dolphin community is estimated to comprise of
approximately 30 individuals.’
Table 3: This table is very helpful to get an idea of sighting rates of individuals throughout the study.
A column with percentage of surveys sighted in (X/48) for each individual would be of use to visually
compare the amount of time each individual is sighted across the study period. The seasons column
regardless of year would be more helpful, and an additional column “year” for # of years sighted? To
me, this table says there are certainly individuals sighted in the region throughout seasons showing
some degree of site fidelity, but the majority of individuals are still sighted in less than 50 % of surveys
which to me indicates that the survey area is not completely including the animals’ full ranging
patterns. The other hypothesis is that by lumping the offshore and inshore survey areas, the sighting
rate is much less, might be worth considering looking at site fidelity within each area?
Authors’ response: Edits to the table have been made as suggested. An extra column showing the
percentage of seasons (X/21) the individuals were sighted was added. The seasons in which the
dolphins were sighed has also been added. Separating inshore and offshore sightings did not reveal
any individual dolphins preferring a survey area; table 2 was updated to reflect individual dolphins
encountered during both inshore and offshore surveys. Of the six dolphins encountered offshore, only
dolphin 0000 was encountered on two occasion, the other five dolphins were each encountered only
once during the offshore surveys. Due to the low sighting rate offshore, it is not feasible to investigate
site fidelity to the two separate survey areas. The inshore and offshore sightings made during
systematic surveys have been separated and updated in Figure 7 of the manuscript, page 32. Please
also see our response to ‘Range of movement of the common dolphin community above.
Lines 294-295: The defined community is only 13 adult individuals, what about numbers of subadults
and calves? This seems like a very low # of animals to be in a community. Would be of use to include
estimate of total number of animals in community (adults/subadults/calves). Even if it is difficult to
dentify unmarked animals outside of a single sighting, calculating a distinctiveness rate across
sightings could provide an indication of overall community size.
Authors’ response: We agree with reviewer 2. We now include in the manuscript that the total
community is estimated to consist of 30 individuals, comprising of calves and sub-adults. This was
estimated based on the number of adult dolphins along with the known number of calves born during
the survey period and the number of sub-adults individuals encountered separately from adult-calf
groups. We added to the manuscript page 11, lines 249 - 253: ‘The common dolphin community is
considered to be small, based on the numbers of adult common dolphins, calves born during the
study period, and sub-adult individuals sighted in groups separate to the adults and calf groups. In
total, the Port Phillip Bay common dolphin community is estimated to comprise of approximately 30
ndividuals.’ We also added page 12, lines 269 - 270: ‘All individuals with non-distinct dorsal fins were
calves and sub-adults.’
Lines 323, 329: Do not agree with the terms long-term resident and consistent sightings based on the
data which show relatively low sighting rates.
the manuscript and used the term ‘resident’ only.
Lines 336-337: Based on the low sighting rates, the authors need to provide more justifications for
why they feel there are low immigration/emigration rates. Minimally from a genetics standpoint, a
closed population of 13 adult animals does not seem sustainable.
Authors’ response:
We agree with reviewer 2 and included in the discussion that there is likely some level of genetic
exchange with dolphins from outside the bay. The level of genetic exchange is yet to be determined.
This genetic exchange potentially occurs through male-mediated gene flow. The majority of adults in
the bay are females, pointing to a high level of female philopatry. We added the following to the
manuscript page 21, lines 511 - 521: ‘A further concern is the sustainability of such a small number of
dolphins in the embayment given that the level of genetic exchange with dolphins outside the bay is
unknown. Future research is needed to clarify the level of gene flow of the resident common dolphin
community with common dolphins outside the bay, and the genetic diversity within the community.
This is important because if gene flow is severely reduced for the small resident common dolphin
community in Port Phillip Bay, inbreeding may occur potentially reducing the dolphins’ reproductive
fitness. Low genetic diversity may also reduce the ability of the resident common dolphin community
to adapt to human-induced impacts and/or environmental change thus reducing chances of long-term
sustainability in the bay.’
Lines 370-372: Was there any effort to estimate survival rates of calves across this study?
Authors’ response: No, this study did not estimate the survival rate of calves across the study. As
most of the calves were unmarked, we found it difficult to identify them once they had left their
mother. The following text was added to page 11, lines 248- 249: ‘As this study focused on the adult
dolphins in the community, survivorship of the calves was not estimated.’
Lines 468-474: Authors touch on temporary emigration here. This section should be expanded,
based on the low sighting rates; one hypothesis is that animals are likely using areas outside of the
survey boundaries. Are there additional photo-id catalogs that can be compared to see where these
animals may be going? Future studies to expand surveys to identify where the animals are going or
other animals coming into survey area?
We clarify reviewer 2’s concern by editing the manuscript page 12, lines 276 – 278: ‘Common
dolphins in Port Phillip Bay were generally seen between Mount Eliza and Mount Martha, an area with
geological activity (Fig. 7)’. Also edited were pages 12 – 13, lines 280 -287: ‘During systematic
surveys, the distance from shore for common dolphin groups ranged from 0.2 km to 9.3 km with a
median distance of 2.2 km. During non-systematic surveys common dolphins were encountered
between 0.3 km and 3.8 km from shore with a median distance of 781 m. The non-systematic survey
distances of up to 3.8 km from shore represented 64 percent of encounters during systematic surveys
ndicating that the core range of common dolphins may lie within 3.8 km from shore. The remaining 36
% of distances measured during systematic surveys were beyond 3.8 km from shore.’
It is therefore likely that the core range of the common dolphins in Port Phillip Bay was covered by the
surveys of this study. High sighting rates occurred in the inshore survey area and low sighting rates in
the offshore survey area, indicating that the survey area, if anything, was rather too large than too
small. We therefore showed the ‘non-presence’ of individuals in most of the region further from shore,
and further away from the distinct bottom topography. Common dolphins seemed to be concentrated
n the area of the distinct bottom topography, see our response to this in the comments to reviewer 2
above.
At present, no extensive common dolphin fin ID catalogue exists for waters beyond Port Phillip Bay.
Future research work was explained by adding the following to the manuscript page 20, lines 481 -
486: ‘However, we recommend that future research uses systematic line-transect surveys and that, at
a minimum, all survey effort is recorded (speed, transect routes, and time spent on and off survey).
This would allow for a collection of additional observational data in all water depths to enable
quantification of habitat use and seasonal movement of the resident common dolphin community in
Port Phillip Bay.’
Lines 475-477: In reading through the manuscript, it may be of value to consider separating the
systematic and non-systematic surveys or the “inshore” and “offshore” transects and then developing
site fidelity/sighting rate classifications. This may be a better way to present the data and illustrate the
ong-term residency that the authors consider the dolphins in this region to have.
Authors’ response: We addressed reviewer 2’s comment; see authors’ comments above referring to
edits made to table 3.
Lines 534-535: Be good to state here the importance of collecting genetic samples from these
animals to evaluate in relation to the rest of MU4.
Authors’ response: We agree with reviewer 2 that the questions of importance of genetic samples to
assess the Port Phillip Bay common dolphins’ connection to Management Unit 4 (see Bilgmann et al.,
2014) is relevant. We included in the manuscript page 21, lines 508 – 521: ‘The residency of around
30 common dolphins (including adults, sub-adults and calves) to the relatively shallow and urbanised
dolphin community particularly vulnerable to anthropogenic impacts. A further concern is the
sustainability of such a small number of dolphins in the embayment given that the level of genetic
exchange with dolphins outside the bay is unknown. Future research is needed to clarify the level of
gene flow of the resident common dolphin community with common dolphins outside the bay, and the
genetic diversity within the community. This is important because if gene flow is severely reduced for
the small resident Port Phillip Bay common dolphin community, inbreeding may occur potentially
reducing the dolphins’ reproductive fitness. Low genetic diversity may also reduce the ability of the
resident common dolphin community to adapt to human-induced impacts and/or environmental
change thus reducing chances of long-term sustainability in the bay.’
Society Open
