Synthesis and applications of MANs/poly(MMA-co-BA)
nanocomposite latex by miniemulsion polymerization
Sheng Gong, Huayao Chen, Xinhua Zhou and Sundaram Gunasekaran
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170844.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170844
Review timeline
Original submission: 13 July 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 September 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 26 September 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170844.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors make latex thin films doped with ATO to be spectrally selective.There is little
motivation provided about why there is a need for this type of thin film, doping windows with
different IR reflectors is well known, how is what is down here unique? The article has merit but
the authors need to complete a revision to address issues outlined below.
1) Where is the reflectance measurement? The authors show transmission but not reflection.
Ideally the particles will be reflecting but a transmission measurement doesn't indicate this.It is
highly doubtful that the ATO nanoparticles are good IR reflectors.
2) The film doesn't truly provide thermal insulation in the form of thermal conductivity, it
appears to only "block" the IR flux. Removing heat insulation from the title might be more
appropriate.
3) No flux distribution is provided for the lamp so it is not characteristic of true solar flux. How
will this affect the performance of the measurement?
4) No discussion is provided as to how well this film performs relative to other existing low e
coatings.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Anandhakumar S)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript submitted by Sheng et. al., deals with fabrication of coreshell structured 3-
methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane (MPS)-functionalized antimony-doped tin oxide (ATO)
nanoparticles (MANs)–poly(methyl methacrylate-co-butyl acrylate) (PMMA-co-BA, PMB) latex
nanocomposite particles via miniemulsion polymerization method. As it exhibits good
transmittance in the visible region, and excellent opacity in the near infrared region, the film
made from MANs/PMB nanocomposite appears potential candidate for heat insulation
applications. However, the following concerns need to be addressed before the manuscript is
being accepted for publication.
1) Can you modify the manuscript title without using short names?
3
2) Pl add latest literate on core-shell NPs by miniemulsion polymerization in the introduction
part.
3) The composition details need to be mentioned clearly in the section 2.3. “The oil phase of
MMA, BA, and MANs (10 (wt)%) and hexadecane as co-surfactant was stirred vigorously to
allow”
4) Add details about WMANS, WATO in equation 1.
5) Add some more discussion on functionalization and core-shell structure formation, which will
be helpful to understand the structure formation.
6) Rewrite the caption in Figure 7. It is not clear.
7) Add more details about the insulation set up, IR lamp and its location. Any influence of
volume of air on temperature increase? What is the room temperature when the experiment was
performed?
8) Check for grammatical errors, and typos. E.g.Line No. 32; The morphologies of synthesized
MANs and MANs/PMB latex nanocomposite particles and were studied with transmission
electron microscopy, which revealed particles..Line No. 56; bicarbonate (NaHCO3) were…
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Comments Attached (Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170844)
05-Sep-2017
Dear Dr GONG
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170844 entitled
"Synthesis of MANs/poly(MMA-co-BA) hybrid latex nanocomposite by miniemulsion
4
polymerization for optical and heat insulation applications" has been accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170844
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
5
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 14-Sep-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
This manuscript should be revised addressing the reviewer concerns prior to publication in
label_version_2
RSOS.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The authors make latex thin films doped with ATO to be spectrally selective.There is little
motivation provided about why there is a need for this type of thin film, doping windows with
different IR reflectors is well known, how is what is down here unique? The article has merit but
the authors need to complete a revision to address issues outlined below.
1) Where is the reflectance measurement? The authors show transmission but not reflection.
Ideally the particles will be reflecting but a transmission measurement doesn't indicate this.It is
highly doubtful that the ATO nanoparticles are good IR reflectors.
2) The film doesn't truly provide thermal insulation in the form of thermal conductivity, it
appears to only "block" the IR flux. Removing heat insulation from the title might be more
appropriate.
3) No flux distribution is provided for the lamp so it is not characteristic of true solar flux. How
will this affect the performance of the measurement?
4) No discussion is provided as to how well this film performs relative to other existing low e
coatings.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The manuscript submitted by Sheng et. al., deals with fabrication of coreshell structured 3-
methacryloxypropyltrimethoxysilane (MPS)-functionalized antimony-doped tin oxide (ATO)
nanoparticles (MANs)–poly(methyl methacrylate-co-butyl acrylate) (PMMA-co-BA, PMB) latex
nanocomposite particles via miniemulsion polymerization method. As it exhibits good
transmittance in the visible region, and excellent opacity in the near infrared region, the film
made from MANs/PMB nanocomposite appears potential candidate for heat insulation
applications. However, the following concerns need to be addressed before the manuscript is
being accepted for publication.
1) Can you modify the manuscript title without using short names?
2) Pl add latest literate on core-shell NPs by miniemulsion polymerization in the
introduction part.
3) The composition details need to be mentioned clearly in the section 2.3. “The oil phase of
MMA, BA, and MANs (10 (wt)%) and hexadecane as co-surfactant was stirred vigorously to
allow”
4) Add details about WMANS, WATO in equation 1.
5) Add some more discussion on functionalization and core-shell structure formation,
which will be helpful to understand the structure formation.
6) Rewrite the caption in Figure 7. It is not clear.
7) Add more details about the insulation set up, IR lamp and its location. Any influence of
volume of air on temperature increase? What is the room temperature when the experiment was
performed?
7
8) Check for grammatical errors, and typos. E.g.
Line No. 32; The morphologies of synthesized MANs and MANs/PMB latex nanocomposite
particles and were studied with transmission electron microscopy, which revealed particles..
Line No. 56; bicarbonate (NaHCO3) were…
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
Comments Attached
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170844)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170844.R1)
26-Sep-2017
Dear Dr GONG,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Synthesis and applications of
MANs/poly(MMA-co-BA) nanocomposite latex by miniemulsion polymerization" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
8
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
The authors have comprehensively addressed the expert reviewer comments and the manuscript
is much improved. I am happy to recommend publication in RSOS.
pendix A
ommendation: Major revisions needed as noted.
mments: In this manuscript (ID: RSOS-170844), authors reported the “Synthesis of
Ns/poly(MMA-co-BA) hybrid latex nanocomposite by miniemulsion polymerization for
ical and heat insulation applications”. The content of the manuscript is interesting, but some
nts are not clearly explained and arranged. There are serious concerns with this manuscript.
comments are
The role of nanomaterials has not been identified, what is claimed at the end of the
introduction is generic and not supported by experimental evidence. The introduction does
not address the existing literature on core-shell MANs/poly(MMA-co-BA) hybrid latex
nanocomposite. The reasons why this combination is more advantage over those reported
poly(MMA–BA)/nano-ATO hybrid latex (see https://doi.org/10.1007/s11998-010-9318-6)
are not clearly addressed in the introduction part.
In section 3.1, the average particle size is found to be 70 nm. The histogram for overall
particle size distribution and DLS should provide.
a) Page 5, line 6, please change “glass” into “glass sheets”
b) Page 5, line 54, please change “DNS” into “DNS-86”
c) Page 7, line 32, please change “MANs/PMA” into “MANs/PMB”
Page 6, line 50, Author stated “dispersions in ethanol/water solution functionalized with MPS
(figure 3(a)) and without (figure 3(b))” but in figure 3 caption shows “MANs (a) and ATO
(b) in ethanol solution”. Please revise it.
Page 6, line 54, please provide experimental evidence or literature ref. to claim “nanosize
effect causes the reflecting light move to the shorter wavelength”
Page 7, Please explain the peak appeared at 1460 and 1174 cm-1 in figure 4 b, c. Figure 4 a
should discuss in text.
Compared with literature reported (https://doi.org/10.1007/s11998-010-9318-6) 87.5 nm size
of poly(MMA–BA)/nano-ATO hybrid latex, what is the advantage of the present
MANs/PMB hybrid latex particles?
More comments on Scheme and Figures: Must redraw scheme 1 and Figure 1. Scheme 1 and
figure 2 are fuzzy. Texts are not very clear and too small in both Scheme 1 and all Figures.
Figure 7 C seems like all three glasses are same. Please revise it.
Figure 2 d should provide without red circle and text. It’s hard to see the core-shell structure
of MANs/PMB. Please see ref. articles for good presentation (see
doi:10.1038/nprot.2012.141 Or DOI: 10.1002/ppsc.201300104)
The author should provide comparison data of MANs/PMB core-shell nanocomposite XPS
spectra and transmission data with PMMA-co-BA alone and literature results.
The lifetime of the present nanocomposite film on glass sheets should investigate to some
extent.
The performance comparison of the optical, heat and lifetime of present nanocomposite
should provide with literature reports. This information is important to demonstrate the
improvement of the present core-shell nanocomposite.
Uniform representation must need in this article. For example, In Page 2 Abstract, the author
stated, “latex nanocomposite particles”, but in table 1 heading “hybrid latex nanoparticles”
and in section 3.1 heading “nanocomposite latex particles”….
Figure 1, Author stated “the heat insulation measurement study using Infrared lamb”, but in
page 9, line 50, “under the iodine-tungsten light”. Please revise it.
Page 5, line 5, author stated “was used to measure the reflectance and transmittance spectra
………”. But in Results & discussion is discussed transmittance spectra only.
Page 9, Author should discuss Figure 5 A first followed by Figure B and C. Please revise it
accordingly.
Some repeated words are found in conclusion. Please revise it.
In conclusion, I think a major revision of this manuscript is needed before consideration for
publication.
ppendix B
eply to the Reviewer Comments
ank you very much for your careful review of the manuscript and useful comments and suggestions. We have
refully revised the manuscript accordingly. In the following, we summarize the changes made in response to each
mment.
eferee 1
omment 1: Where is the reflectance measurement? The authors show transmission but not reflection. Ideally the
rticles will be reflecting but a transmission measurement doesn't indicate this. It is highly doubtful that the ATO
noparticles are good IR reflectors.
eply: Usually, we measure how much IR is transmitted, knowing thatwe can determine how much IR is reflected
d absorbed.
omment 2: The film doesn't truly provide thermal insulation in the form of thermal conductivity, it appears to only
lock" the IR flux. Removing heat insulation from the title might be more appropriate.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 1, Line 1).
omment 3: No flux distribution is provided for the lamp so it is not characteristic of true solar flux. How will this
fect the performance of the measurement?
eply: Compared with common glass sheet, the light transmittance of MANs/PMB-coated glasses in the whole
V-Vis-NIR range is decreased. With the increase of MANs content, the light shielding efficiency is increased. And
e wavelength range of the iodine-tungsten light is 340-2500nm. It indicates that the performance of this
easurement is reliable.
omment 4: No discussion is provided as to how well this film performs relative to other existing low e coatings.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 1, Line 13-18).
eferee 2
omment 1: Can you modify the manuscript title without using short names?
eply: We have revised the title; however, expanding all abbreviations will make titles extralong. It’s common
actice for titles to have abbreviations in cases such as ours.
omment 2: Pl add latest literate on core-shell NPs by miniemulsion polymerization in the introduction part.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 2, Line 26).
omment 3: The composition details need to be mentioned clearly in the section 2.3. “The oil phase of MMA, BA,
d MANs (10 (wt)%) and hexadecane as co-surfactant was stirred vigorously to allow”
eply: The composition details were given in Table 1. (See Page 4, Line 1).
omment 4: Add details about WMANS, WATO in equation 1.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 6, Line 1).
omment 5: Add some more discussion on functionalization and core-shell structure formation, which will be
lpful to understand the structure formation.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 3, Line 15-16).
omment 6: Rewrite the caption in Figure 7. It is not clear.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 10, Line 25).
omment 7: Add more details about the insulation set up, IR lamp and its location. Any influence of volume of air on
mperature increase? What is the room temperature when the experiment was performed?
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 5, Line 21, Line23 and Figure 1.).
omment 8: Check for grammatical errors, and typos. E.g.
ne No. 32; The morphologies of synthesized MANs and MANs/PMB latex nanocomposite particles and were
died with transmission electron microscopy, which revealed particles.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 1, Line 14).
ne No. 56; bicarbonate (NaHCO3) were…
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 3, Line3).
eferee 3
omment 1: The role of nanomaterials has not been identified, what is claimed at the end of the introduction is
neric and not supported by experimental evidence. The introduction does not address the existing literature on
re-shell MANs/poly (MMA-co-BA) hybrid latex nanocomposite. The reasons why this combination is more
vantage over those reported poly(MMA–BA)/nano-ATO hybrid latex (see
ps://doi.org/10.1007/s11998-010-9318-6) are not clearly addressed in the introduction part.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 2, Line 31-32).
In section 3.1, the average particle size is found to be 70 nm. The histogram for overall particle size distribution
d DLS should provide.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 6, Line 16).
omment 3
Page 5, line 6, please change “glass” into “glass sheets”
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 5, Line 15).
Page 5, line 54, please change “DNS” into “DNS-86”
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 6, Line 9).
Page 7, line 32, please change “MANs/PMA” into “MANs/PMB”
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 8, Line 1).
omment 4: Page 6, line 50, Author stated “dispersions in ethanol/water solution functionalized with MPS (figure
a)) and without (figure 3(b))” but in figure 3 caption shows “MANs (a) and ATO (b) in ethanol solution”. Please
vise it.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 7, Line 23).
omment 5: Page 6, line 54, please provide experimental evidence or literature ref. to claim “nanosize effect causes
e reflecting light move to the shorter wavelength”
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 7, Line 19).
omment 6: Page 7, Please explain the peak appeared at 1460 and 1174 cm-1 in figure 4 b, c. Figure 4 a should
scuss in text.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 8, Line 2-4).
omment 7: Compared with literature reported (https://doi.org/10.1007/s11998-010-9318-6) 87.5 nm size of
ly(MMA–BA)/nano-ATO hybrid latex, what is the advantage of the present MANs/PMB hybrid latex particles?
eply: Compared with literature reported (https://doi.org/10.1007/s11998-010-9318-6) 87.5 nm size of
ly(MMA–BA)/nano-ATO hybrid latex, the present MANs/PMB hybrid latex particles can be better tailored, and
ve regular morphology. This is included in the revised text (See Page 2, line 30-32)
omment 8: More comments on Scheme and Figures: Must redraw scheme 1 and Figure 1. Scheme 1 and figure 2
e fuzzy. Texts are not very clear and too small in both Scheme 1 and all Figures. Figure 7 C seems like all three
asses are same. Please revise it.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 4 and Page 5).
omment 9: Figure 2 d should provide without red circle and text. It’s hard to see the core-shell structure of
ANs/PMB. Please see ref. articles for good presentation (see doi:10.1038/nprot.2012.141 Or DOI:
.1002/ppsc.201300104)
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 6, Figure 2).
) The author should provide comparison data of MANs/PMB core-shell nanocomposite XPS spectra and
nsmission data with PMMA-co-BA alone and literature results.
eply: Sorry, unfortunately we did not investigate transmission data with PMMA-co-BA alone. Relevant literature
formation is included in the manuscript revised (See Page 8, Line 22).
) The lifetime of the present nanocomposite film on glass sheets should investigate to some extent.
eply: Sorry, unfortunately we didn’t investigate the lifetime of the present nanocomosite film on glass sheets yet.
anks for your suggestion, we will pursue this in our subsequent studies.
) The performance comparison of the optical, heat and lifetime of present nanocomposite should provide with
erature reports. This information is important to demonstrate the improvement of the present core-shell
nocomposite.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 10, Line 20-23).
) Uniform representation must need in this article. For example, In Page 2 Abstract, the author stated, “latex
nocomposite particles”, but in table 1 heading “hybrid latex nanoparticles” and in section 3.1 heading
anocomposite latex particles”….
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 1, Line 2 &11; Page 3, Line 32;
ge 4, Line 1 ).
) Figure 1, Author stated “the heat insulation measurement study using Infrared lamb”, but in page 9, line 50,
nder the iodine-tungsten light”. Please revise it.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 5, Line 21).
) Page 5, line 5, author stated “was used to measure the reflectance and transmittance spectra ………”. But in
sults & discussion is discussed transmittance spectra only.
eply: Only transmittance spectra was measured, so “the reflectance” was deleted in the revised manuscript (See
ge 5, Line 14).
) Page 9, Author should discuss Figure 7 A first followed by Figure 7 B and C. Please revise it accordingly.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in the revised manuscript (See Page 9, Figure 7 ).
) Some repeated words are found in conclusion. Please revise it.
eply: Suggested modification has been done in conclusion in the revised manuscript.
Society Open
