Silver-catalysed azide–alkyne cycloaddition (AgAAC):
assessing the mechanism by density functional theory
calculations
Biswadip Banerji, K. Chandrasekhar, Sunil Kumar Killi, Sumit Kumar Pramanik, Pal Uttam,
Sudeshna Sen and Nakul Chandra Maiti
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160090.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160090
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 February 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 4 May 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 July 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160090.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The level of the DFT calculations is unacceptable. Actually, they are not DFT since Hartree-Fock
is indicated in the manuscript, which is not a DFT method. The systems are very small, and the
basis set is very small. Calculations at this level are simply unreliable. Further, it is not clear what
intermediate V is. A transition state I guess, but this is not mentioned. Finally, the product of the
1,4-addition is calculated to be more stable than reactant by 314 kcal/mol, versus 54 kcal/mol for
1,5-addition. This is impossible. One of the numbers (my feeling 314) is completely wrong. I
suggest the authors to ask assistance to some scientist expert in quantum modeling of reactivity.
I do not reject the manuscript as it is because I am unable to evaluate the experimental part.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
OK
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
Yes
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper describes the successful alkyne azide cycloaddition catalyzed by a AgCl-Et3N
catalytic system. Although the use of AgCl as catalyst is already reported (see references below),
the experimental work is supported by DFT calculations which reveal favourable energies for this
process.
1.-The abstract is too general and it does not describe properly the nature of the work.
2.-Check the misspells through the manuscript (i.e. Page 3 line 54 “yeilds” and others).
3
3.-The authors must include (and discuss in Introduction Section) the following references about
silver catalyzed alkyne azide cycloaddition:
a) A. A. Ali, M. Chetia, B. Saikia, P. J. Saikia, D. Sarma. AgN(CN)2/DIPEA/H2O-EG: a highly
efficient catalytic system for synthesis of 1,4-disubstituted-1,2,3 triazoles at room temperature.
Tetrahedron letters 2015, 56, 5892-5895.
b) A. I. Ortega-Arizmendi, E. Aldeco-Pérez, E. Cuevas-Yañez. Alkyne-azide cycloaddition
catalyzed by silver chloride and “abnormal” silver N-heterocyclic carbene complex. The Scientific
World Journal. 2013, Article ID 186537, http://dx.doi.org/10.1155/2013/186537
c) T. U. Connell, C. Schieber, I. P. Silvestri, J. M. White, S. J. Williams, P. S. Donnelly. Copper
and Silver Complexes of Tris(triazole)amine and Tris(benzimidazole)amine Ligands: Evidence
that Catalysis of an Azide-Alkyne Cycloaddition (“Click”) Reaction by a Silver
Tris(triazole)amine Complex Arises from Copper Impurities. Inorganic Chemistry 2014, 53,
6503-6511.
4.- The authors should compare the obtained energy values for AgAAC with similar data
reported for CuAAC (check V. D. Bock, H. Hiemstra, J. H. van Maarseveen, CuI-Catalyzed
Alkyne–Azide “Click” Cycloadditions from a Mechanistic and Synthetic Perspective. European
Journal of Organic Chemistry 2006, 51–68, and cited references)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160090)
22-Mar-2016
Dear Dr Banerji,
Title: Silver-Catalyzed Azide–Alkyne Cycloaddition (AgAAC): Assessing the Mechanism by DFT
Calculations
Manuscript ID: RSOS-160090
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 14-Apr-2016). If we do not hear
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
4
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160090
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Please include an Authors' Contributions section at the end of your main text detailing the
contribution of each author. All authors should have read and approved the manuscript before
submission and this should be stated in the Authors' Contributions section.
The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting
the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
5
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Liisa Niitsoo
Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
Royal Society of Chemistry
Email: chemistryopenscience@rsc.org
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 434524
On behalf of the Subject Editor Dr Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor
Dr Catherine Cazin.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor comments to the Author:
Dear Dr Banerji,
After consideration of the referees' comments, I am not able to accept this manuscript in its
current form. The main issue being the DFT calculations. If both referees' comments were fully
addressed, I would be willing to consider a new submission and send it to the reviewers.
Best wishes
Dr Catherine Cazin
RSC Subject Editor comments to the Author:
The authors need to follow the advice given by referee 1, which is to verify with a DFT expert as
to the validity of the methods they have used. Since the calculations are an integral part of the
interpretation of their data, this validation is essential if the paper is to be accepted. The authors
may wish to test their approach on a related example from the existing literature in order to
confirm that it is correct.
**********************************************
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160090)
See Appendix A.
6
label_version_2
RSOS-160090.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
It seems the authors have seriously revised their computational approach, which is now
consistent with standards in the field. I have no problem to recommend this manuscript for
publication.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160090.R1)
14-Jun-2016
Dear Dr Banerji,
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160090.R1
entitled "Silver-Catalyzed Azide–Alkyne Cycloaddition (AgAAC): Assessing the Mechanism by
DFT Calculations" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision in accordance with a minor modification. Please find the referee's comments at
the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also please make some
minor revisions to your manuscript. I invite you to revise your manuscript with a funding
statement.
7
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author. This needs to be a separate section rather than included in the acknowledgements.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 22-Jun-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes,
Liisa Niitsoo
Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
Royal Society of Chemistry, Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road, Cambridge, UK CB4 0WF
Tel +44 (0) 1223 432167
chemistryopenscience@rsc.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
8
Subject Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Authors
It seems the authors have seriously revised their computational approach, which is now
consistent with standards in the field. I have no problem to recommend this manuscript for
publication.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160090.R1)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160090.R2)
18-Jul-2016
Dear Dr Banerji,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Silver-Catalyzed Azide–Alkyne
Cycloaddition (AgAAC): Assessing the Mechanism by DFT Calculations" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 days. Please contact the
editorial office (openscience@royalsociety.org and openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us
know if you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid
publication and an extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may
experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
9
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
RSC Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
Appendix A
27 April 2016
Liisa Niitsoo
Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
Royal Society of Chemistry
Reference: Revision for manuscript ID: RSOS-160090
Dear Miss Niitsoo,
Please find enclosed the revised version of the manuscript: “Silver-Catalyzed Azide–Alkyne
Cycloaddition (AgAAC): Assessing the Mechanism by DFT Calculations” by Biswadip
Banerji, K Chandrasekhar, Sunil Kumar Killi, Sumit Kumar Pramanik, Uttam Pal, Sudeshna
Sen and Nakul Chandra Maiti.
We have made the corrections as suggested by the reviewers. All the changes are highlighted
in yellow color. Please see the enclosed author response for reviewers' reports.
Best regards,
Dr. Biswadip Banerji
Principal Scientist
Chemistry Division
CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology
Kolkata 700032
e-Mail: biswadip@iicb.res.in
******************************
Author Responses:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The level of the DFT calculations is unacceptable. Actually, they are not DFT since Hartree-
Fock is indicated in the manuscript, which is not a DFT method. The systems are very small,
and the basis set is very small. Calculations at this level are simply unreliable. Further, it is
not clear what intermediate V is. A transition state I guess, but this is not mentioned. Finally,
the product of the 1,4-addition is calculated to be more stable than reactant by 314 kcal/mol,
versus 54 kcal/mol for 1,5-addition. This is impossible. One of the numbers (my feeling 314)
is completely wrong. I suggest the authors to ask assistance to some scientist expert in
quantum modeling of reactivity.
I do not reject the manuscript as it is because I am unable to evaluate the experimental part.
Author response: Thank you for your comments. We have throughly revised the quantum
computation part. B3LYP level of DFT method has been used this time to model the
complete reaction path. Activation energies and free energies are now comparable with the
reported values of copper catalyzed reactions. As silver belongs to the same group of
elements as copper, we have followed a similar mechanism to model the silver catalyzed
reaction that involves two metal centers as described recently for copper catalyzed click
reactions (Science 2013, 340 (6131), 457-460; Science Advances 2015, 1, (5).1-5; Organic
& Biomolecular Chemistry 2011, 9, (8), 2952-2958). As we did not get any 1,5
cycloaddition product, we compuatationally modeled only the 1,4 cycloaddition reaction. We
performed a potential energy surface scan of the reaction coordinates to find the transition
state, which was further optimized using Berny method at DFT/B3LYP level of theory.
Further, we have highlighted the detailed structure of the transition state and compared it
with the transition state of the copper catalyzed reactions. From the transition state the
activation energy for the Ag catalyzed 1,4 disubstituted cycloaddition was computed to be
18.52 kcal/mol which is comparable to the activation energy of copper catalyzed reaction
(16.0 al/mol). The free energy value was found to be -37.51 kcal/mol which is also
comparable to the free energy of Cu catalyzed reaction (-49.1 kcal/mol).
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper describes the successful alkyne azide cycloaddition catalyzed by a AgCl-Et3N
catalytic system. Although the use of AgCl as catalyst is already reported (see references
below), the experimental work is supported by DFT calculations which reveal favourable
energies for this process.
1.-The abstract is too general and it does not describe properly the nature of the work.
Author response: Thank you for your suggestion. We have revised the abstract to blend
background, our findings and implications in a well balanced manner.
2.-Check the misspells through the manuscript (i.e. Page 3 line 54 “yeilds” and others).
Author response: Thank you for pointing this out. We checked this revised manuscript
throughly to remove the typos and the mistakes.
3.-The authors must include (and discuss in Introduction Section) the following references
about silver catalyzed alkyne azide cycloaddition:
a) A. A. Ali, M. Chetia, B. Saikia, P. J. Saikia, D. Sarma. AgN(CN)2/DIPEA/H2O-EG: a
highly efficient catalytic system for synthesis of 1,4-disubstituted-1,2,3 triazoles at room
temperature. Tetrahedron letters 2015, 56, 5892-5895.
b) A. I. Ortega-Arizmendi, E. Aldeco-Pérez, E. Cuevas-Yañez. Alkyne-azide cycloaddition
catalyzed by silver chloride and “abnormal” silver N-heterocyclic carbene complex. The
Scientific World Journal. 2013, Article ID 186537, http://dx.doi.org/10.
c) T. U. Connell, C. Schieber, I. P. Silvestri, J. M. White, S. J. Williams, P. S. Donnelly.
Copper and Silver Complexes of Tris(triazole)amine and Tris(benzimidazole)amine Ligands:
Evidence that Catalysis of an Azide-Alkyne Cycloaddition (“Click”) Reaction by a Silver
Tris(triazole)amine Complex Arises from Copper Impurities. Inorganic Chemistry 2014, 53,
6503-6511.
Author respones: Thank you for your suggestion. We included a discussion about the
previously published works on Ag catalyzed cycloaddition reactions in the introduction. We
also referred the articles you suggested (Vide ref. 21-23). In the introduction, we highlighted
the work of Erick Cuevas who has described a process for the synthesis of 1,2,3-triazoles by
using silver chloride and silver N-heterocyclic carbene complex. We also mentioned the
work of Abdul Aziz et al. about the synthesis of 1,4-disubstituted-1,2,3 triazoles by using
AgN(CN)2 catalyst at room temperature. Use of silver(I) oxide nanoparticles and different
silver(I) complexes for the synthesis of 1,4-disubstituted-1,2,3 triazoles has also been
discussed in the introduction.
4.- The authors should compare the obtained energy values for AgAAC with similar data
reported for CuAAC (check V. D. Bock, H. Hiemstra, J. H. van Maarseveen, CuI-Catalyzed
Alkyne–Azide “Click” Cycloadditions from a Mechanistic and Synthetic Perspective.
European Journal of Organic Chemistry 2006, 51–68, and cited references)
Author response: Thank you for your suggestion. We have compared the energy values for
AgAAC system with the reported values for CuAAC system (Organic & Biomolecular
Chemistry 2011, 9, (8), 2952-2958). The activation energy for the Ag catalyzed 1,4
disubstituted cycloaddition was 18.52 kcal/mol, whereas, the activation energy for Cu
catalyzed 1,4 cycloaddition was reported to be16.0 al/mol). The free energy values were also
comparable. The Gibbs free energy for Ag catalyzed reaction was -37.51 kcal/mol and for
Cu it was reported to be -49.1 kcal/mol. This part is included in the results and discussion
section.
ppendix B
a Niitsoo
lishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
al Society of Chemistry
.: Response to the referees comments on manuscript RSOS-160090.R1
pected Mam,
have recently received our above mentioned manuscript from your office which has been
mmended for publication in Royal Society Open Science by addressing the minor concerns of the
or. We are now submitting the revised version of this paper for your consideration.
h best wishes,
erely
Biswadip Banerji
Society Open
