Microencapsulated diets to improve bivalve shellfish
aquaculture
David Willer and David C. Aldridge
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171142.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171142
Review timeline
Original submission: 13 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 6 October 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 11 October 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171142.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Masato Tanaka)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript discussed the efficiency of microencapsulation of diets.
I think that the effects of physical properties of microcapsules such as size, shape, morphologies
on particle capture must be discussed.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Marty Riche)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached file (Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171142)
22-Sep-2017
Dear Mr Willer,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Microencapsulated diets to increase bivalve shellfish
production and improve global food security") have now received comments from reviewers.
We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 15-Oct-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
3
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171142
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
4
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
It is clear that there is enthusiasm for this type of approach (i.e. micro-encapsulated artificial
diets). Nevertheless, there are several major concerns about the work presented in this
manuscript.
1) The title and introduction about food security is a bit too far fetched. The experiment and data
are about ingestion of a micro-encapsulated artificial diet by blue mussel. Introducing artificial
diets (already done quite well), and processing of food particles by suspension feeders (not done,
see below) would be a better introduction to this experiment.
2) More background on the natural nutrition of mussels in the wild and in culture would be
useful. This section should delve into particle size variation of natural prey/diet, and what is
known about pre- and post-ingestive responses to particle size variation.
3) The manuscript does not have any data demonstrating that the mussels actually assimilate the
contents of the Biobullets and used it to fuel anabolic processes. As such, discussing the
limitations of this study, and tempering conclusions is needed. Certainly avoid hyperbole - there
is a smattering of it throughout the manuscript.
The manuscript would be a strong contribution, provided it is revised to make the introduction
more focussed. I urge the authors to critically evaluate what the data means. Moreover, a section
identifying potential limitations and avenues for further work would be a welcome addition.
The reviewers raise a number of other issues that also needs to be clearly addressed. With much
gratitude to the reviewers, I invite the authors to submit a revised version of the manuscript.
Comments to Author:
5
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This manuscript discussed the efficiency of microencapsulation of diets.
I think that the effects of physical properties of microcapsules such as size,shape,morphologies on
particle capture must be discussed.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached file
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171142)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171142.R1)
11-Oct-2017
Dear Mr Willer,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Microencapsulated diets to improve
bivalve shellfish aquaculture" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
6
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Thank you for incorporating comments. This version is much improved, and focussed. It is ready
for publication.
pendix A
resting initial approach in demonstrating the value of BioBullets. Good place to start. There is
entially tremendous value in this product. I'll be interested in following your progress.
science, the approach, and the methods are sound. There are some minor points of clarification
ded, those can be found below.
ever, I suggest you may want to revisit the title and key words. Although in the first paragraph it
es,"…expanding aquaculture has been identified as a critical component in securing food for 9 billion
ple by 2050", there is no other mention or discussion about food security. This manuscript, these
ies have nothing to do with food security and therefore global food security is not warranted in the
or key words.
really sure the authors have provided enough evidence for their conclusions regarding the
ngestive particle processing. I’m hard pressed to believe there is a true difference in particle size
ribution between the faeces and the pseudofaeces. If the mussels are selecting for smaller particles
are the particle sizes similar between the faeces and the pseudofaeces. It appears there are even
e larger particles in the faeces than the pseudofaeces. With so many more large particles (as a
portion) in both the faeces and pseudofaeces and so many more small particles (as a proportion) in
non-grazed particles, isn’t it possible the mussels are actually selecting larger particles? If the
roparticles are being ingested and being digested or even partially digested wouldn’t there be a
ater proportion of smaller particles? The authors suggest the presence of a size threshold above
ch microparticles have a greater chance of rejection on the labial palps. Based on their data do they
confident they can say what that size is for the mussels they used? If the authors want to defend
r conclusions based on their argument offered in the postingestive particle processing there needs
e some literature citations to support this defense. Currently they offer no support for this position
it remains speculative.
he conclusion section it states, “Our study has proved the concept that a new form of food
roparticle known as BioBullets can successfully be ingested and digested by a commercially farmed
lve, the blue mussel”. The clearance rate study and the recovery of the particles in the feces strongly
gests the microparticles can be ingested, but the authors did not investigate or offer any evidence
they are being digested, in fact they suggest that much of it cannot be digested.
text is accessible, but the Figure captions where they are provided are confusing.
supplementary material could be found. The author's state datasets were uploaded as
plementary material. However, I was unable to find any supplementary materials and there is no
ntion of an external repository.
30-33: From a stylistic and readability perspective it seems that instead of compounding this
tence that both points are made stronger using two sentences.
33: Is this 25% of global production, it isn't clear?
35: Not really sure nutrition protocols is appropriate. Nutrition is the presentation (provision) and
milation of nutrients, and not a protocol. Perhaps feeding protocols would be better.
L41-43: Microencapsulation "can" overcome these limitations, but not definitively as stated. Also
ovative and exciting" are unnecessary hyperbole.
44: What type of control agents?
51: More specificity about which nutrients would be better.
62-65: There is no evidence offered for the stability of the microparticles, particularly if they include
and EPA, and is highly dependent on how they are made. Also there is no evidence they won't
ome contaminated by bacteria.
71: The authors didn't offer a clear objective. Perhaps instead of starting this paragraph with "This
of of concept study set out…", this sentence could be converted into a clear objective statement.
94: You should either say what the non-ionic surfactant is or state it is a proprietary non-ionic
actant.
109: 10 mg dry weight or as fed?
115-116: Seems unnecessary.
3: Micro-CT should be defined with first usage.
140: pellets were centrifuged at what g-force?
162: This is more accurately described as rate of particle clearance.
164: Gramme should be consistent with other usage.
175: For those that are unfamiliar it should be made R is a statistical package.
182: Here the authors report microparticles/mL, but previous concentrations report mg/mL. They
uld be consistent, but at a minimum we need to know how many microparticles are in a mg.
186: It is unclear how this error term was derived.
185-190: Should be, microparticles mL-1 g-1 wet mussel mass min-1
re 1 is not numbered and without caption.
re 2 is very confusing. According to the design there should be five data points in blue at each time
od and three in red. At time 0 there are five blue, but not at any of the other time points. Is there a
er way to present the data? The figure caption is much too long. Figure is not numbered.
re 3 also very confusing. Proportion of what? The figure caption is too long. Figure is not numbered.
ight be clearer if the green column second Y axis label read unfed mussels instead of just unfed.
re 4 is not numbered and there is no figure caption. There is no way of knowing what the different
els represent. There is nothing to indicate what the arrows indicate.
re 5 is not numbered. Figure caption is too long.
rall, this is a fairly strong manuscript and could make a nice contribution.
ty Riche, PhD
ida Atlantic University
Appendix B
David Willer,
Department of Zoology,
The David Attenborough Building,
University of Cambridge,
Pembroke Street,
Cambridge,
CB2 3QY,
United Kingdom
Email: dw460@cam.ac.uk
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
September 29th, 2017
Dear Alice,
I am pleased to submit a revised version of our paper now entitled ‘Microencapsulated diets to improve
bivalve shellfish aquaculture’ (RSOS-171142).
I am most grateful for the highly useful feedback you have given, and for the helpful comments from the
other reviewers.
Below I have detailed how the manuscript has been amended in response to each of the comments given.
Your comments:
1) The new title is ‘Microencapsulated diets to improve bivalve shellfish aquaculture’. The food
security component has been removed from the title and introduction.
2) The introduction now has a new section discussing in detail the processing of natural food particles
by bivalves, particularly the particle size variation of natural diets and pre- and post-ingestive
responses to variations in particle characteristics.
3) The conclusion has been rewritten and now goes into detail on the limitations of the study and
suggests areas for future work. This includes growth response experiments to demonstrate that the
contents of BioBullets can be assimilated to fuel anabolic processes, and the testing and
development of different particle sizes to avoid high levels of rejection in pseudofaeces and faeces.
Conclusions have been tempered and abstract modified to fit with this, and unnecessary hyperbole
has been removed throughout the manuscript.
Marty Riche’s comments:
<U+F0B7> Title and key words: Food security has been removed, new key word mussels.
<U+F0B7> Preingestive particle processing discussion: This now concludes that mussels preferentially rejected
larger microparticles, rather than that mussels had a feeding preference for smaller microparticles.
Citations have been added to support the argument that smaller microparticles should be ingested
by mussels. We discuss how the efficiency of this may be been reduced in our investigations if the
gills and labial palps became partially blocked by large microparticles. Our data suggests that the
threshold value for particle rejection might be around 75 µm, but we do not feel that our data can
fully support this conclusion.
<U+F0B7> Postingestive particle processing discussion: Citation added to support the rejection of large natural
food particles down rejection grooves in the stomach.
<U+F0B7> Conclusion: This has been rewritten, now focusing on successful ingestion of microparticles, and
discusses the need to future investigations to demonstrate nutrient assimilation and successful
digestion.
<U+F0B7> Minor points of clarification: Marty helpfully identified these line by line. All of them have been
carefully corrected as follows, with the new line number in brackets:
o Line 30-33 (now line 30): separated into two sentences.
o Line 33 (32): added ‘global’ production.
o Line 35 (34): replaced ‘nutrition’ with ‘feeding’ protocols.
o Line 41-43 (38-40): change to microencapsulation technology ‘can’ overcome limitations,
hyperbole removed.
o Line 44 (41): added ‘chemical’ control agents.
o Line 51 (48-39): added specificity about protein and fatty acids as key nutrients.
o Line 62-65 (62-65): added citation for stability of microparticles in air, changed to less risk of
bacterial contamination rather than no risk of contamination.
o Line 71 (86): changed to clear objective statement ‘This study aimed to demonstrate that a
new form of BioBullets microparticles containing a microalgal food could be successfully
captured and ingested by a commercially farmed bivalve; the blue mussel Mytilus edulis’.
o Line 94 (108): added ‘proprietary’ non-ionic surfactant.
o Line 109 (124): added ‘dry weight’.
o Line 115-116 (129): removed.
o Line 133 (146): Micro-CT defined as Micro Computed Tomography.
o Line 140 (154): added g-force.
o Line 162 (178): ‘gramme’ changed to ‘g’.
o Line 175 (189): R defined as statistical package.
o Line 182 (124): stated how many microparticles there are per mg.
o Line 186 (178-182): The decline in microparticle concentration when accounting for
background settlement was calculated by subtracting the mean decline in microparticle
concentration in control samples from each clearance rate from aquaria with mussels. Mean
and SE values were then calculated from this data.
o Line 185-190 (201-203): changed units to microparticles ml-1 g-1 wet mussel mass minute-1.
<U+F0B7> Figures:
o Figure 1: numbered, caption added.
o Figure 2: numbered, caption significantly shortened. A small y position jitter has been added
to make it clearer that there are 5 blue points and 3 red points for each time value.
o Figure 3: numbered, caption significantly shortened. The y axis now states the ‘proportion of
microparticles’, and the bar labels have been clarified to ‘microparticles in faeces’,
‘microparticles in pseudofaeces’ and ‘unfed microparticles’.
o Figure 4: numbered, caption added which states what arrows and panel indicate.
o Figure 5: numbered, caption significantly shortened.
<U+F0B7> Supplementary material: This has now been uploaded correctly at
https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos along with the rest of the manuscript.
Reviewer 1’s comments
<U+F0B7> The effects of the physical properties of natural food such as size and morphology on particle
capture have now been discussed in a new section in the introduction. It is stated how
microparticles are subject to sorting by these same factors.
I look forward to hearing from you soon.
Sincerely,
David Willer
PhD Student, Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge
Society Open
