Female signalling to male song in the domestic canary,
Serinus canaria
Mathieu Amy, Pauline Salvin, Marc Naguib, Gerard Leboucher
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140196.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140196
Review timeline
Original submission: 24 July 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 December 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 22 December 2014 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140196.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
In their paper ”Female signalling to male song in the domestic canary, Serinus canaria“ the
authors investigate female mating signals in response to male song performance. This is an
interesting topic, especially we still know little about female acoustic signals in birds. The authors
found a correlation of what they call “female specific trills” with the copulation solicitation
display while being exposed to playback of sexy syllables. Apparently the results are different
compared to the findings of an earlier study that has found a correlation of simple calls with the
copulation solicitation assay. The authors explain that the different playback regime might
explain the differences of the results. This is probably true, but for a full understanding a
comparison with a more naturalistic setup would be helpful, for instance whether the different
calls are being used in different social contexts. Therefore, a broader and more comparative
approach would have been more helpful to evaluate the pattern found in this study. The paper
further raises interesting questions on the function of female calls that the authors also mention in
the last paragraph of the Discussion, but it would have been nice to have some of these questions
already answered in the present manuscript.
More specific comments:
1) The authors may wish to put the study into a broader framework, for example by giving
examples for multimodal signalling in the introduction.
2) How is the pattern of the female calls in a natural situation? Do the females emit these calls
also in the absence of male stimuli?
3) Discussion: The authors state that this is the first study that finds a differential use of female
signals used in intersexual communication. In my opinion this is only partly true as the authors
found a clear pattern only with female specific trills.
4) I am a bit puzzled by the terminology and the units that have been used for analysis. What is a
“common trill” (Figure 4)? While a call consists of a single note, the trills are more heterogenous
and may vary in the amount of repetitions. Therefore, the duration of a signal, rather than the
amount per signal may be important as well. Have the authors measured the duration of the
female signals?
5) Prior to the experiment, have the females been in contact to zebra finches? It is surprising that
zebra finch song already elicits such a high female response, it is even highest in simple calls at
first exposure.
6) Discussion, line 335: What does it mean that the FSTs are used in the final stage of courtship?
Unfortunately the authors were not able to measure CSD latencies (line 316) as this would have
been a good measure to exactly correlate the different calls. Can you be sure that you have
measured all CSD events?
7) As there was an interval of 14 seconds between the song stimuli, I was wondering about the
start time of the calls. Some latencies are larger than 14 seconds (up to 20 s), does it mean that
these calls were uttered continuously or even overlapping the next session?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Karen Spencer)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
3
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I couldn't see a data file attached
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper describes an experimental study that determines the effects of the quality of male
canary song on female canary CSD behaviour and their vocalisations. Whilst the relationship
between CSDs and A phrases has been long validated in this species, the authors use this as a
validating measure to show that a specific type of female call (female-specific trill) correlates
with the well known copulation solicitation display in terms of response to sexy songs. The
design of the experiment is sound and the results are compelling. Not only do females elicit FSTs
more and faster in response to sexy songs, but other call types do not show this relationship,
suggesting the team have found a female vocalisation that may be used to signal to the male her
readiness to mate.
It would be interesting to know how a male may respond to these female calls and one issue with
this paper is the fact that artificial male songs were contracted from recorded notes, meaning that
the interactions that may occur in terms of male song performance after FSTs are exhibited cannot
be measured in this study, which is a shame, it would have been a great addition to a nice study.
One minor comment also is that the SI notation for Chisq is normally denoted with an X2.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140196)
01-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Amy,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("FEMALE SIGNALLING TO MALE SONG IN THE
DOMESTIC CANARY, SERINUS CANARIA") has now received comments from reviewers. We
would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within 21 days - if we do not hear from you within
this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional
circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once
submitted your paper may be returned to the previous referees, or new ones if these are
unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre.
4
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response. Of particular interest here are the questions from both reviewers about whether it
would be feasible to perform additional work to clarify some of your results.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140196)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140196.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have made the required changes and have improved the manuscript. However, I
wonder whether some results of the pilot experiments could be added as "personal observation"
without interfering the planned experiments for next year. Alternatively it could be added as an
5
outlook at the end of the Discussion. Moreover, in my opinion the last paragraph of the ms is
much too general, it should really end with a specific open question related to the manuscript.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140196.R1)
10-Dec-2014
Dear Dr Amy:
Manuscript ID RSOS-140196.R1 entitled "FEMALE SIGNALLING TO MALE SONG IN THE
DOMESTIC CANARY, SERINUS CANARIA" which you submitted to Royal Society Open
Science, has been reviewed. The comments of the reviewer(s) are included at the bottom of this
letter.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 02-Jan-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
6
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Sincerely,
Dr Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
kpadian@berkeley.edu
label_version_3
RSOS-140196.R2 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix B.
Responses to the reviewers:
Editor’s comment: “Of particular interest here are the questions from both reviewers about
whether it would be feasible to perform additional work to clarify some of your results.”
We are aware of the importance to test for alternative functions and especially about the effect
of the female specific trill on male behaviour. We already have done some pilot experiments
but at the present time further investigations are needed. These experiments will be performed
in the following year and therefore we do not consider that these experiments should be
included in the present paper.
Reviewer: 1
In their paper ”Female signalling to male song in the domestic canary, Serinus canaria“ the
authors investigate female mating signals in response to male song performance. This is an
interesting topic, especially we still know little about female acoustic signals in birds. The
authors found a correlation of what they call “female specific trills” with the copulation
solicitation display while being exposed to playback of sexy syllables. Apparently the results
are different compared to the findings of an earlier study that has found a correlation of
simple calls with the copulation solicitation assay. The authors explain that the different
playback regime might explain the differences of the results. This is probably true, but for a
full understanding a comparison with a more naturalistic setup would be helpful, for instance
whether the different calls are being used in different social contexts.
Therefore, a broader and more comparative approach would have been more helpful to
evaluate the pattern found in this study.
We added supplementary information about the different calls. See L84-93.
The paper further raises interesting questions on the function of female calls that the authors
also mention in the last paragraph of the Discussion, but it would have been nice to have some
of these questions already answered in the present manuscript.
See response to the editor’s comment, above.
More specific comments:
1) The authors may wish to put the study into a broader framework, for example by giving
examples for multimodal signalling in the introduction.
We added examples of multimodal signalling in the introduction. See L65-68. “Birds often
use multimodal signaling by combining movements with vocalizations in various contexts
such as sexual interactions (e.g. Wiley 1973), aggressive interactions (e.g. Beletsky 1983) and
begging for food (e.g. Kilner et al 1999).”
2) How is the pattern of the female calls in a natural situation? Do the females emit these calls
also in the absence of male stimuli?
There is few information about this Female-specific trills. L94-96 “these specific trills were
often listened in experiments on female canaries during the broadcast of male songs and were
never heard outside the broadcast period (E. Vallet personal communication)”.
3) Discussion: The authors state that this is the first study that finds a differential use of
female signals used in intersexual communication. In my opinion this is only partly true as the
authors found a clear pattern only with female specific trills.
We removed this statement and replaced it by “This experiment demonstrates that female
birds are engaged in multimodal communication during sexual interaction.” See L28-29 and
L282-283.
4) I am a bit puzzled by the terminology and the units that have been used for analysis. What
is a “common trill” (Figure 4)?
There was an error on figure 4. The label should be Simple Trills as described in the whole
paper.
While a call consists of a single note, the trills are more heterogenous and may vary in the
amount of repetitions. Therefore, the duration of a signal, rather than the amount per signal
may be important as well. Have the authors measured the duration of the female signals?
Unfortunately, we did not measure the length of the different signals emitted by females. We
only measured the length of the FST. As suggested we performed these analyses. They
showed that the duration of FST was not affected by song performance but was significantly
affected by the repetition of the stimulation; the duration significantly decreased with the
repetition of the stimulation. We added these results in our manuscript. See results section.
5) Prior to the experiment, have the females been in contact to zebra finches? It is surprising
that zebra finch song already elicits such a high female response; it is even highest in simple
calls at first exposure.
Females have never been in contact with zebra finches though zebra finches are raised in
other rooms of our laboratory; canaries and zebra finches have never been placed in the same
room. However we can not rule out that female canary could have previously heard zebra
finch song. Previous studies have already showed that female canaries could respond to
heterospecific song (see Nagle et al 2002 for instance). Concerning the first exposure in the
present experiment, one has to notice that the different songs do not significantly affect the
utterance Simple Calls (see SONG within STIMULATION 1 in table 2).
6) Discussion, line 335: What does it mean that the FSTs are used in the final stage of
courtship? We took this remark into account by removing this sentence.
Unfortunately the authors were not able to measure CSD latencies (line 316) as this would
have been a good measure to exactly correlate the different calls. Can you be sure that you
have measured all CSD events?
CSD have been counted from video recordings allowing the experimenters to see the video
several times if necessary. Therefore, it is unlikely that we missed CSD events.
7) As there was an interval of 14 seconds between the song stimuli, I was wondering about
the start time of the calls. Some latencies are larger than 14 seconds (up to 20 s), does it mean
that these calls were uttered continuously or even overlapping the next session?
It seems that there is a misunderstanding. There are 14 seconds of silence after a 6-seconds
song. Therefore the latencies could be up to 20 s after the start of the song. However, to
clarify this point, we rewrote the description of the stimuli in the methods, see L144-147.
Reviewer: 2
This paper describes an experimental study that determines the effects of the quality of male
canary song on female canary CSD behaviour and their vocalisations. Whilst the relationship
between CSDs and A phrases has been long validated in this species, the authors use this as a
validating measure to show that a specific type of female call (female-specific trill) correlates
with the well known copulation solicitation display in terms of response to sexy songs. The
design of the experiment is sound and the results are compelling. Not only do females elicit
FSTs more and faster in response to sexy songs, but other call types do not show this
relationship, suggesting the team have found a female vocalisation that may be used to signal
to the male her readiness to mate.
It would be interesting to know how a male may respond to these female calls and one issue
with this paper is the fact that artificial male songs were contracted from recorded notes,
meaning that the interactions that may occur in terms of male song performance after FSTs
are exhibited cannot be measured in this study, which is a shame, it would have been a great
addition to a nice study.
We are aware of the importance to test for alternative functions and especially about the effect
of the female specific trill on male behaviour. We already have done some pilot experiments
but at the present time further investigations are needed. These experiments will be performed
in the following year and therefore we do not consider that these experiments should be
included in the present paper.
One minor comment also is that the SI notation for Chisq is normally denoted with an X2.
This change has been done. See results section.
Appendix B
Responses to the reviewers:
Reviewer: 1
The authors have made the required changes and have improved the
manuscript. However, I wonder whether some results of the pilot experiments
could be added as "personal observation" without interfering the planned
experiments for next year. Alternatively it could be added as an outlook at the
end of the Discussion. Moreover, in my opinion the last paragraph of the ms is
much too general, it should really end with a specific open question related to
the manuscript.
As suggested by the reviewer, we rewrote the last paragraph of the discussion
and restricted the outlook to the findings of the manuscript: ‘The role of
female signals has been historically overlooked [5,8,13,53]. We here show the
copulation solicitation function of Female-Specific Trills in the domestic
canaries and that female canaries use multimodal signals to solicit copulation.
Further studies are needed to investigate non exclusive functions of these
Female-Specific Trills, and especially to test if they incite male to display.’
Society Open
