Coexistence of three sympatric cormorants (Phalacrocorax
spp.); partitioning of time as an ecological resource
Mylswamy Mahendiran
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160175.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160175
Review timeline
Original submission: 9 March 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 17 April 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 April 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160175.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The data collected are clearly specified at lines 102ff, but I could not find how to access them.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The core idea of this paper is interesting and I believe it is novel, at least for the scientific
literature on birds. There is a fairly widely reported observation (which I believe originates with
Paul Leyhausen, though I have not been able to check the reference) that domestic cats time-share
access to resources, both within the home and in gardens; and I suspect that ornithologists and
lay bird-wtchers are well aware that there are better and worse times for observing birds of
different species foraging when they live in mixed communities. But it is good to have this
phenomenon properly documented and placed into the context of resource-partitioning theory.
However, I think the paper would be improved by more discusson of ecological considerations
that might drive this apparently time-sharing; for example, do the three species of cormorant
prefer different fish species as prey, and do those species have different diurnal cycles of
availability? It would also be helpful for the reader to be told whether these cormorant species
typically bring single prey items to the surface (as P. carbo typically does), or capture several prey
items under water on a single dive (as the European shag does).
I have some concerns about the statistical analysis, though I think it is unlikely that they will
affect the key conclusions of the paper. It appears that each dive cycle was treated as an
independent event, and there are two problems with this.
(1) The bouts within a cycle are mutually related in a way that bouts from different cycles are not;
for example, within a species, smaller or younger birds will typically dive for shorter times. This
non-independence needs to be taken into account in the analysis, either by treating bouts as the
"subjects" in a within-subjects analysis, as was done by Lea et al. (1996, Ibis), or by using a formal
multilevel analysis. In either case, tests of differences between species or due to the various
contextual variables (iotic/lentic, etc) are then made on bout means, rather than at the level of
individual dive cycles; while tests of the relationships between dive and surface times are made
within the bout.
(2) There will be possible sequential dependencies within a bout. Accordingly, when testing for
the relationship between surface time and dive time, the preceding dive or surface time needs to
be partialled out.
Additionally, it is an assumption, and not necessarily accurate, that surface time should depend
on the preceding dive time (which is the hypothesis the paper tests). The present paper makes
that assumption (e.g. line 60: "each dive follows a period on the surface...") and uses it in the data
analysis. However it is also possible for dive time to depend on the preceding surface time (what
Lea et al. 1996 called "anticipatory breathing"). Accordingly, it is necessary to test both these
hypotheses to see which best describes the data. This can be done within a single regression
analysis or analysis of covariance.
Finally on statistics, it is important to distinguish between "no difference" and "no significant
difference". At line 192/Table 3, for example, it looks as if there was quite a substantial
difference, which happened to fall short of significance.
I had one methodological concern. It is a common fault of the earlier literature on shore-based
direct observation of diving behaviour, from Dewar (1924) up to and including Lea et al (1996),
that researchers did not think carefully about pseudoreplication - the possibility that many bouts
were observed from the same bird. Since the birds in the present study were not marked in any
way, there can never be complete confidence that there was zero pseudoreplication, but if the
author can give us figures about the number of different observation sites used, and the number
3
of birds that could have been observed at each, that should be sufficient to show whether it was a
real problem. My impression from reading the method is that it will not have been.
The paper contains some broad statements about the specialist foraging abilities of birds (e.g.
lines 52ff, 230ff), which seem to me questionable. I am not sure there is evidence that birds are
any better at this than other classes of vertebrates, let alone invertebrates. What probably is true
is that such specialisation has been more fully documented in birds than in other classes, because
of the relative ease of observing their foraging behaviour.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Rajaratinavelu Nagarajan)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The supplementary information is clear. The supporting data are not provided and I feel that it is
not necessary.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
MS Title: “Coexistence of three sympatric cormorants (Phalacrocorax spp.); Partitioning of time as
an ecological resource” by Mylswamy Mahendiran (Ref No. RSOS-160175)
The current paper, entitled “Coexistence of three sympatric cormorants (Phalacrocorax spp.);
Partitioning of time as an ecological resource” investigates the resource partitioning by using
sympatric cormorants (Phalacrocorax spp.) in the freshwater wetlands of different kinds i.e. lentic
and lotic of various seasons i.e. non-breeding and breeding seasons. Traditionally several
research explored the morphology, behaviour, habitat, etc as resource for partitioning by living
organisms. But in this research, the author has explored 'time' as resource and classically
explained using the empirical data.
4
Some of my specific comments and suggestions to the authors
Minor points:
The word 'Behavior' and 'Behaviour' is used interchangeably and be consistent and the British is
'Behaviour' so the spelling consistently
At times the viz., is cited in the text which is not in italics, make them italics all through the text
Line 59: Foraging consists of dive time (hereafter =T D) and surface/ pause - cite as TD
Line 90: Only serious dives were taken for - do you mean the cormorants which are foraging
actively
Line 235: cormorants with respect to food (9,16), habitat (23,36,38,39) are - include and (food
(9,16), and habitat (23,36,38,39))
This paper has clear objective, appropriate and interesting data on specific variables, simple but
convincing statistical analysis and clear conclusions based on appropriate data. The tables and
figures are appropriate and necessary. They also self-explanatory. The outcome of this paper is
novel and a new contribution to science. So, I recommend the paper for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160175)
13-Apr-2016
Dear Dr Mahendiran
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160175 entitled
"Coexistence of three sympatric cormorants (Phalacrocorax spp.); Partitioning of time as an
ecological resource" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at
the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
5
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160175
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 22-Apr-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
6
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The core idea of this paper is interesting and I believe it is novel, at least for the scientific
literature on birds. There is a fairly widely reported observation (which I believe originates with
Paul Leyhausen, though I have not been able to check the reference) that domestic cats time-share
access to resources, both within the home and in gardens; and I suspect that ornithologists and
lay bird-wtchers are well aware that there are better and worse times for observing birds of
different species foraging when they live in mixed communities. But it is good to have this
phenomenon properly documented and placed into the context of resource-partitioning theory.
However, I think the paper would be improved by more discusson of ecological considerations
that might drive this apparently time-sharing; for example, do the three species of cormorant
prefer different fish species as prey, and do those species have different diurnal cycles of
availability? It would also be helpful for the reader to be told whether these cormorant species
typically bring single prey items to the surface (as P. carbo typically does), or capture several prey
items under water on a single dive (as the European shag does).
I have some concerns about the statistical analysis, though I think it is unlikely that they will
affect the key conclusions of the paper. It appears that each dive cycle was treated as an
independent event, and there are two problems with this.
7
(1) The bouts within a cycle are mutually related in a way that bouts from different cycles are not;
for example, within a species, smaller or younger birds will typically dive for shorter times. This
non-independence needs to be taken into account in the analysis, either by treating bouts as the
"subjects" in a within-subjects analysis, as was done by Lea et al. (1996, Ibis), or by using a formal
multilevel analysis. In either case, tests of differences between species or due to the various
contextual variables (iotic/lentic, etc) are then made on bout means, rather than at the level of
individual dive cycles; while tests of the relationships between dive and surface times are made
within the bout.
(2) There will be possible sequential dependencies within a bout. Accordingly, when testing for
the relationship between surface time and dive time, the preceding dive or surface time needs to
be partialled out.
Additionally, it is an assumption, and not necessarily accurate, that surface time should depend
on the preceding dive time (which is the hypothesis the paper tests). The present paper makes
that assumption (e.g. line 60: "each dive follows a period on the surface...") and uses it in the data
analysis. However it is also possible for dive time to depend on the preceding surface time (what
Lea et al. 1996 called "anticipatory breathing"). Accordingly, it is necessary to test both these
hypotheses to see which best describes the data. This can be done within a single regression
analysis or analysis of covariance.
Finally on statistics, it is important to distinguish between "no difference" and "no significant
difference". At line 192/Table 3, for example, it looks as if there was quite a substantial
difference, which happened to fall short of significance.
I had one methodological concern. It is a common fault of the earlier literature on shore-based
direct observation of diving behaviour, from Dewar (1924) up to and including Lea et al (1996),
that researchers did not think carefully about pseudoreplication - the possibility that many bouts
were observed from the same bird. Since the birds in the present study were not marked in any
way, there can never be complete confidence that there was zero pseudoreplication, but if the
author can give us figures about the number of different observation sites used, and the number
of birds that could have been observed at each, that should be sufficient to show whether it was a
real problem. My impression from reading the method is that it will not have been.
The paper contains some broad statements about the specialist foraging abilities of birds (e.g.
lines 52ff, 230ff), which seem to me questionable. I am not sure there is evidence that birds are
any better at this than other classes of vertebrates, let alone invertebrates. What probably is true
is that such specialisation has been more fully documented in birds than in other classes, because
of the relative ease of observing their foraging behaviour.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
MS Title: “Coexistence of three sympatric cormorants (Phalacrocorax spp.); Partitioning of time as
an ecological resource” by Mylswamy Mahendiran (Ref No. RSOS-160175)
The current paper, entitled “Coexistence of three sympatric cormorants (Phalacrocorax spp.);
Partitioning of time as an ecological resource” investigates the resource partitioning by using
sympatric cormorants (Phalacrocorax spp.) in the freshwater wetlands of different kinds i.e. lentic
and lotic of various seasons i.e. non-breeding and breeding seasons. Traditionally several
research explored the morphology, behaviour, habitat, etc as resource for partitioning by living
8
organisms. But in this research, the author has explored 'time' as resource and classically
explained using the empirical data.
Some of my specific comments and suggestions to the authors
Minor points:
The word 'Behavior' and 'Behaviour' is used interchangeably and be consistent and the British is
'Behaviour' so the spelling consistently
At times the viz., is cited in the text which is not in italics, make them italics all through the text
Line 59: Foraging consists of dive time (hereafter =T D) and surface/ pause - cite as TD
Line 90: Only serious dives were taken for - do you mean the cormorants which are foraging
actively
Line 235: cormorants with respect to food (9,16), habitat (23,36,38,39) are - include and (food
(9,16), and habitat (23,36,38,39))
This paper has clear objective, appropriate and interesting data on specific variables, simple but
convincing statistical analysis and clear conclusions based on appropriate data. The tables and
figures are appropriate and necessary. They also self-explanatory. The outcome of this paper is
novel and a new contribution to science. So, I recommend the paper for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160175)
See Appendix A.
pendix A
r Andrew Dunn,
elated to know that my manuscript ID RSOS "Coexistence of three sympatric cormorants
alacrocorax spp.); Partitioning of time as an ecological resource" has been accepted for publication in
al Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions.
revision, in accordance with two referees, are dealt with all their comments and suggestions, and my
onse are given in bold under each comment of both referees.
iewer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
core idea of this paper is interesting and I believe it is novel, at least for the scientific literature on
s. There is a fairly widely reported observation (which I believe originates with Paul Leyhausen, though I
e not been able to check the reference) that domestic cats time-share access to resources, both within
home and in gardens; and I suspect that ornithologists and lay bird-wtchers are well aware that there
better and worse times for observing birds of different species foraging when they live in mixed
munities. But it is good to have this phenomenon properly documented and placed into the context of
urce-partitioning theory.
ever, I think the paper would be improved by more discusson of ecological considerations that might
e this apparently time-sharing; for example, do the three species of cormorant prefer different fish
cies as prey, and do those species have different diurnal cycles of availability? It would also be helpful for
reader to be told whether these cormorant species typically bring single prey items to the surface (as P.
o typically does), or capture several prey items under water on a single dive (as the European shag
s).
uggested by the referee, I have improved the Discussion section in the light of above comment by
ssing more on ecological consideration that might drive this idea of apparent time-sharing in birds.
cluding paragraph in the discussion section is given below, written with the above comment in mind, (do
three species of cormorant prefer different fish) by citing results from our previously published papers
he same species.
e probable ecological factors that drive this apparent time sharing, perhaps, could be the prevailing
rences in the diurnal cycles of prey species, and preference of prey size selection among cormorants. It
experimentally proved that cormorants caught fishes ranged from 30 to 140 mm, and the prey sizes
n by each species was significantly different (16). Further, a significant difference in handling time was
ed for a same size of fishes which indirectly indicated a preferential selection of different prey species
). Unlike the European shag (Phalacrocorax aristotelis), all cormorant species typically brought fish to
er surface, one at a time (21), so it attracts issue of kleptoparasitism as well (16). It was noted that a
ht variation in foraging time between winter and summer as the cormorants being a visual pursuit divers,
he influence of day light was obvious (22). These factors perhaps, either its own or in combination of
ers, mediates the apparent time- sharing among cormorant species.” (Page 10, paragraph 4, and line
of the revised manuscript)
ve some concerns about the statistical analysis, though I think it is unlikely that they will affect the key
clusions of the paper. It appears that each dive cycle was treated as an independent event, and there
two problems with this.
The bouts within a cycle are mutually related in a way that bouts from different cycles are not; for
mple, within a species, smaller or younger birds will typically dive for shorter times. This non-
pendence needs to be taken into account in the analysis, either by treating bouts as the "subjects" in a
in-subjects analysis, as was done by Lea et al. (1996, Ibis), or by using a formal multilevel analysis. In
er case, tests of differences between species or due to the various contextual variables (iotic/lentic, etc)
then made on bout means, rather than at the level of individual dive cycles; while tests of the
tionships between dive and surface times are made within the bout.
There will be possible sequential dependencies within a bout. Accordingly, when testing for the
tionship between surface time and dive time, the preceding dive or surface time needs to be partialled
itionally, it is an assumption, and not necessarily accurate, that surface time should depend on the
eding dive time (which is the hypothesis the paper tests). The present paper makes that assumption
. line 60: "each dive follows a period on the surface...") and uses it in the data analysis. However it is
possible for dive time to depend on the preceding surface time (what Lea et al. 1996 called
icipatory breathing"). Accordingly, it is necessary to test both these hypotheses to see which best
cribes the data. This can be done within a single regression analysis or analysis of covariance.
d the comments are very relevant and important to this manuscript, therefore, I am pleased to
rporate the following paragraphs along with the table in the method and results section of the
uscript
e dives of within bouts are mutually related in a way that bouts from different dive cycles are not; for
mple, within a species, smaller or younger birds would typically dive for shorter times. Therefore, this
-independence of bouts was taken into account in the analysis following the method of Lea et al. (35).
est the dive of cormorants as either reactive or anticipatory, mean pause time for the bout of dives
cerned was first subtracted from each pause time, to give what can be called as “residual pause times”
). TD were then submitted to multiple regression using dive bouts, residual preceding Pause time (TP-
and succeeding pause time (TP-Suc).” (Page 5, paragraph 3, and line 121 of the revised manuscript)
wever, there was a significant positive relationship between TD and TP in all the three species of
morants after controlling the effect of non-independence of diving bouts (Table 2). Further, dives were
tive in nature in all the three species of cormorants. In P. fuscicollis quite a substantial difference was
ed, which happened to fall short of significance (p< 0.068) in favour of anticipatory breathing (Table 2).”
ge 7, paragraph 1, and line 164 of the revised manuscript)
e dives were reactive in all the three species of cormorants clearly indicates that the assumption of pause
e should depend on the preceding dive time, satisfying the condition of reactive breathing which prevails
ng all three cormorant species. Though the results were not in favour of the anticipatory breathing
e, where dive time depend on the preceding surface time, in any of the three cormorants, yet a slight
e of anticipatory dive was observed P. fuscicollis (Table 2).” (Page 9, paragraph 3, and line 241 of the
sed manuscript):
le 2. Multiple regression analysis estimating the relationship of dependent variable TD with TP after
trolling the effect of difference in dive bouts.
cies Predictors R2 % Coefficient t-test ANOVA
alue p- value Df F-value p- value
iger TP 40.7 0.368 5.68 0.001 1, 504 32.25 0.001
Suc 40.8 0.368 5.69 0.001 1,504 32.34 0.001
Pre 36.2 -0.001 -0.01 0.985 1,468 0.000 0.985
uscicollis TP 42.0 0.250 1.54 0.126 1,190 2.360 0.126
Suc 42.0 0.255 1.57 0.118 1,190 2.460 0.118
Pre 42.4 0.396 1.83 0.068 1,178 3.360 0.068
arbo TP 39.4 0.569 4.21 0.001 1,252 17.74 0.001
Suc 35.3 0.566 4.19 0.001 1,252 17.57 0.001
Pre 35.9 -0.029 -0.20 0.844 1,235 0.400 0.844
ge 17, paragraph 1, and line 436 of the revised manuscript)
lly on statistics, it is important to distinguish between "no difference" and "no significant difference". At
192/Table 3, for example, it looks as if there was quite a substantial difference, which happened to fall
rt of significance.
ly agree with the referee, and appropriate correction were made. Inference of the line 192 is dealt with
significant difference” instead of “no difference” (page 8, paragraph 3, and line 204 of the revised
uscript)
d one methodological concern. It is a common fault of the earlier literature on shore-based direct
ervation of diving behaviour, from Dewar (1924) up to and including Lea et al (1996), that researchers
not think carefully about pseudoreplication - the possibility that many bouts were observed from the
e bird. Since the birds in the present study were not marked in any way, there can never be complete
fidence that there was zero pseudoreplication, but if the author can give us figures about the number of
rent observation sites used, and the number of birds that could have been observed at each, that
uld be sufficient to show whether it was a real problem. My impression from reading the method is that it
not have been.
void the issue of pseudo-replication to the maximum level, I did make sure to see that the individuals
e observed over different wetlands types, different seasons, spread across 150 kms radius of the Delhi
on. I also cross checked with the video data that was recorded during the field work. At a given site,
imum of 658 individuals of P. niger (at site No-14); 655 individuals of P. fuscicollis (at site No- 7); 350
viduals of P. carbo (at site No-11) were recorded (Mahendiran 2010), and therefore the chances of
udo-replication is almost negligible.
paper contains some broad statements about the specialist foraging abilities of birds (e.g. lines 52ff,
ff), which seem to me questionable. I am not sure there is evidence that birds are any better at this than
er classes of vertebrates, let alone invertebrates. What probably is true is that such specialisation has
n more fully documented in birds than in other classes, because of the relative ease of observing their
ging behaviour.
ly agree with the referee and the words are rephrased.
s well documented in birds that they tend to make finer adjustments to utilize resources” (page 2,
agraph 2, line 52 of the revised manuscript)
well documented in birds that they tend to make finer adjustments to utilize resources,
ge 9, paragraph 4, and line 248 of the revised manuscript)
ever, interesting to note that papers of Clayton et al. (2004, 2006) showed that, at many times,
mbers of the family of crows and Jays are considered as having more cognitive function than other
ebrates, including apes, especially in foraging abilities and storage of food items!
iewer: 2
ments to the Author(s)
Title: “Coexistence of three sympatric cormorants (Phalacrocorax spp.); Partitioning of time as an
ogical resource” by Mylswamy Mahendiran (Ref No. RSOS-160175)
current paper, entitled “Coexistence of three sympatric cormorants (Phalacrocorax spp.); Partitioning of
e as an ecological resource” investigates the resource partitioning by using sympatric cormorants
alacrocorax spp.) in the freshwater wetlands of different kinds i.e. lentic and lotic of various seasons i.e.
-breeding and breeding seasons. Traditionally several research explored the morphology, behaviour,
itat, etc as resource for partitioning by living organisms. But in this research, the author has explored
e' as resource and classically explained using the empirical data.
e of my specific comments and suggestions to the authors
or points:
word 'Behavior' and 'Behaviour' is used interchangeably and be consistent and the British is 'Behaviour'
he spelling consistently
nged as suggested. (Page 8, paragraph 4, and line 217 of the revised manuscript)
imes the viz., is cited in the text which is not in italics, make them italics all through the text
59: Foraging consists of dive time (hereafter =T D) and surface/ pause - cite as TD
nged as suggested in the revised manuscript.
e Paragraph Line
49
55
67
77
138
162
180
193
239
3 270
90: Only serious dives were taken for - do you mean the cormorants which are foraging actively
efined by Ryan (2007), I considered the serious dives as complete foraging bouts with starting dive and
s with a typical post feeding behaviour (Ross 1976).
235: cormorants with respect to food (9,16), habitat (23,36,38,39) are - include and (food (9,16), and
itat (23,36,38,39))
nged as suggested. (Page 9, paragraph 4, and line 253 of the revised manuscript)
paper has clear objective, appropriate and interesting data on specific variables, simple but convincing
istical analysis and clear conclusions based on appropriate data. The tables and figures are appropriate
necessary. They also self-explanatory. The outcome of this paper is novel and a new contribution to
nce. So, I recommend the paper for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
nking your
endiran M
Society Open
