Is the eye-movement field confused about fixations and
saccades? A survey among 124 researchers
Roy S. Hessels, Diederick C. Niehorster, Marcus Nyström, Richard Andersson and Ignace
T. C. Hooge
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180502.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180502
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 March 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 August 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 6 August 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180502.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Timothy Lewis Hodgson)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an interesting paper based upon a survey of researchers views on what criteria should be
used to define eye saccades and fixation. The data is thoroughly analysed and discussed and I
have no major issues.
I wonder whether a key take home message should be that people working with eye movements
and fixations in whatever research area (from neurophysiology to market research) really need to
understand what they are dealing with and not just take for granted that what parsing algorithms
throw out equates precisely to saccades and fixations. In the old days we would always parse
saccades and fixations in a semi-automated way, trial by trial, movement by movement, which
was very time consuming but made you see how sometimes saccade / fixation / blink criteria
made mistakes and also that eye movements themselves sometimes don't obey are ideas that
there is a clear boundary between fixations and saccades.
Also I wonder at the end of the day whether this really all matters in the grand scheme of things?
Isn't it just adding a bit of noise / slight variation between studies where the criteria for fixation
for example differs, rather than introducing any systematic bias in experimental results when
comparisons are made between experimental conditions and manipulations? Can you give more
examples of where confusion can lead to really serious errors or false conflicts between research
findings? Otherwise there is a danger this can just look like a topic of interest to eye movement
nerds like myself!
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Gabriel Diaz)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors present a well-conducted study which characterizes semantic disagreement over the
definition of saccades and fixations by members of the eye tracking community. The
disagreement is demonstrated by survey, and statistical analysis. I’m relieved that this
manuscript has been submitted – once it is published, my rants at conferences will finally be
supported by quantitative data! This was also a fairly easy review; I have carefully read this
manuscript twice, and have little constructive or critical feedback to offer (a rarity). The
manuscript is well motivated, clearly written, and the analyses straight-forward. I imagine it will
receive a fair number of citations (I, for one, will be sure to cite it often). My few comments are
listed below.
- Few develop algorithms or analyze data in the absence of a video record, and I believe some of
the issues revealed by the paper are purely semantic, and would be resolved if a scene video (or
another form of video record) were presented in conjunction with the velocity/position signals.
The authors should discuss, and perhaps advocate for the role of the video in the process of
algorithm development.
- The authors could adopt a more explanatory term for “the stillness definition” for many of the
reasons that motivated them to write this article. I believe they mean rotational stillness of the
eye, and not stillness of the point of regard in a world frame. If that’s the case, perhaps a better
term would be, eye-stillness, rotational-stillness, stable eye-in-head, or something similar.
- The authors may consider promoting terminology, such as “eye-in-head,” or “gaze-in- world”
signal, which resolve ambiguities related to frames of reference. I struggle to find the first
manuscript to adopt this terminology, and wonder if it was first adopted by the Hayhoe lab.
Mary may be a good resource on the matter.
- Line 457: represent to represents
- Line 724: change velocities to classification functions.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180502.R0)
20-Jul-2018
Dear Dr Hessels
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180502 entitled
"Is the eye-movement field confused about fixations and saccades? – A survey among 124
researchers" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
4
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180502
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript before 29-Jul-2018. Please note that the revision deadline
5
will expire at 00.00am on this date. If you do not think you will be able to meet this date please let
me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science charge article processing charges for all new
submissions that are accepted for publication. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to
Royal Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers
submitted as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication, you will be
asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is approved by
6
Royal Society Publishing. You can find out more about the charges at
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Stephen Jackson (Associate Editor) and Prof. Antonia Hamilton (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This is an interesting paper based upon a survey of researchers views on what criteria should be
used to define eye saccades and fixation. The data is thoroughly analysed and discussed and I
have no major issues.
I wonder whether a key take home message should be that people working with eye movements
and fixations in whatever research area (from neurophysiology to market research) really need to
understand what they are dealing with and not just take for granted that what parsing algorithms
throw out equates precisely to saccades and fixations. In the old days we would always parse
saccades and fixations in a semi-automated way, trial by trial, movement by movement, which
was very time consuming but made you see how sometimes saccade / fixation / blink criteria
made mistakes and also that eye movements themselves sometimes don't obey are ideas that
there is a clear boundary between fixations and saccades.
Also I wonder at the end of the day whether this really all matters in the grand scheme of things?
Isn't it just adding a bit of noise / slight variation between studies where the criteria for fixation
for example differs, rather than introducing any systematic bias in experimental results when
comparisons are made between experimental conditions and manipulations? Can you give more
examples of where confusion can lead to really serious errors or false conflicts between research
findings? Otherwise there is a danger this can just look like a topic of interest to eye movement
nerds like myself!
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The authors present a well-conducted study which characterizes semantic disagreement over the
definition of saccades and fixations by members of the eye tracking community. The
disagreement is demonstrated by survey, and statistical analysis. I’m relieved that this
manuscript has been submitted – once it is published, my rants at conferences will finally be
supported by quantitative data! This was also a fairly easy review; I have carefully read this
manuscript twice, and have little constructive or critical feedback to offer (a rarity). The
manuscript is well motivated, clearly written, and the analyses straight-forward. I imagine it will
receive a fair number of citations (I, for one, will be sure to cite it often). My few comments are
listed below.
- Few develop algorithms or analyze data in the absence of a video record, and I believe some of
7
the issues revealed by the paper are purely semantic, and would be resolved if a scene video (or
another form of video record) were presented in conjunction with the velocity/position signals.
The authors should discuss, and perhaps advocate for the role of the video in the process of
algorithm development.
- The authors could adopt a more explanatory term for “the stillness definition” for many of the
reasons that motivated them to write this article. I believe they mean rotational stillness of the
eye, and not stillness of the point of regard in a world frame. If that’s the case, perhaps a better
term would be, eye-stillness, rotational-stillness, stable eye-in-head, or something similar.
- The authors may consider promoting terminology, such as “eye-in-head,” or “gaze-in- world”
signal, which resolve ambiguities related to frames of reference. I struggle to find the first
manuscript to adopt this terminology, and wonder if it was first adopted by the Hayhoe lab.
Mary may be a good resource on the matter.
- Line 457: represent to represents
- Line 724: change velocities to classification functions.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180502.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180502.R1)
06-Aug-2018
Dear Dr Hessels,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Is the eye-movement field confused
about fixations and saccades? – A survey among 124 researchers" is now accepted for publication
in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
8
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Stephen Jackson (Associate Editor) and Antonia Hamilton (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear editor and reviewers,
Please find our response to the reviewers' suggestions below, marked with
"response: "
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
This is an interesting paper based upon a survey of researchers views on what
criteria should be used to define eye saccades and fixation. The data is thoroughly
analysed and discussed and I have no major issues.
I wonder whether a key take home message should be that people working with eye
movements and fixations in whatever research area (from neurophysiology to
market research) really need to understand what they are dealing with and not just
take for granted that what parsing algorithms throw out equates precisely to
saccades and fixations. In the old days we would always parse saccades and
fixations in a semi-automated way, trial by trial, movement by movement, which
was very time consuming but made you see how sometimes saccade / fixation /
blink criteria made mistakes and also that eye movements themselves sometimes
don't obey are ideas that there is a clear boundary between fixations and saccades.
Response: We agree with the reviewer that this should be a key message, and have
added it to the discussion prior to the final conclusion.
Also I wonder at the end of the day whether this really all matters in the grand
scheme of things? Isn't it just adding a bit of noise / slight variation between studies
where the criteria for fixation for example differs, rather than introducing any
systematic bias in experimental results when comparisons are made between
experimental conditions and manipulations? Can you give more examples of where
confusion can lead to really serious errors or false conflicts between research
findings? Otherwise there is a danger this can just look like a topic of interest to eye
movement nerds like myself!
Response: We have worked out examples in the Introduction of where the sources
of confusion can lead to false conflicts or non-sensical comparisons:
On frames of reference:
“However, in some software packages from eye-tracker manufacturers it is possible
to apply the exact same algorithm for classifying fixations and saccades to data from
remote and mobile eye trackers, which can lead to eye-movement metrics that
seems comparable (as they involve the same terminology), but are actually
incomparable (as the underlying signals are fundamentally different).”
“That different frames of reference can lead to implicit conceptual confusion is
evident from the literature. In some cases the term `fixation' is used both in world-
centered and head-centered frames of reference, even in the same research field,
without explicitly distinguishing between the two. In infant looking behavior, for
example, \citet{Merin:2007kl} report on fixations recorded with a remote eye
tracker, whereas \citet{Franchak:2011di} report on fixations recorded with a mobile
eye tracker. This is problematic for two reasons. First, when properties of fixations
from both studies are discussed without considering the coordinate system, a
nonsensical comparison is made. For example, when comparing fixation durations
between infants of different ages and different methods, confusion may arise.
Infants aged a few months are less capable of disengaging attention and shifting
gaze to a new fixation location than older infants, such that their `fixations' are
generally of longer duration. `Fixations' may, however, also be of shorter or longer
duration if the same algorithm is applied to eye-tracking data from a remote or
mobile eye tracker. Second, the oculomotor system is heavily under development
just after birth, such that infants develop the ability to pursue moving objects with
respect to the environment within the first year \citep{Johnson:1990jr}. Particularly
here it is vital to be specific on what constitutes a `fixation', and whether the
`fixation'-target is moving with respect to the infant or not, in order to avoid
potential confusion due to concepts being underspecified.”
On event detection:
“This distinction is important. For example, if one were to take `saccades' as
`detected' by an algorithm to be true saccades, one might draw wrong conclusions,
e.g. that saccades in the dark are slower than saccades in the light. If, on the other
hand, one considers the feature which is measured from the eye by the eye tracker,
in this case the pupil, it turns out that the apparent slowing of saccades in the dark
is an artifact of the eye-tracking technique based on said feature
\citep{Felssberg:2018dz}”
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
The authors present a well-conducted study which characterizes semantic
disagreement over the definition of saccades and fixations by members of the eye
tracking community. The disagreement is demonstrated by survey, and statistical
analysis. I’m relieved that this manuscript has been submitted – once it is published,
my rants at conferences will finally be supported by quantitative data! This was also
a fairly easy review; I have carefully read this manuscript twice, and have little
constructive or critical feedback to offer (a rarity). The manuscript is well motivated,
clearly written, and the analyses straight-forward. I imagine it will receive a fair
number of citations (I, for one, will be sure to cite it often). My few comments are
listed below.
Response: We thank the reviewer for the appreciation of our work.
- Few develop algorithms or analyze data in the absence of a video record, and I
believe some of the issues revealed by the paper are purely semantic, and would be
resolved if a scene video (or another form of video record) were presented in
conjunction with the velocity/position signals. The authors should discuss, and
perhaps advocate for the role of the video in the process of algorithm development.
Response: We have added a discussion of how video records (or other sources of
information such as accelerometers) can resolve some of the ambiguity in velocity
profiles of head-mounted eye-trackers, in the Introduction:
“Granted, the ambiguity in a velocity profile of a head-centered gaze measurement
with regard to whether the eye or the head moves can be resolved by adding other
sources of information. For example, one might use an accelerometer or video
record to determine whether the head or eyes move with respect to the
environment. Such information sources are generally not featured, however, in
algorithms that allow automatic eye-tracking data analysis \citep[but
see][]{Larsson:2016ck,Larsson:2016ft}.”
- The authors could adopt a more explanatory term for “the stillness definition”
for many of the reasons that motivated them to write this article. I believe they
mean rotational stillness of the eye, and not stillness of the point of regard in a
world frame. If that’s the case, perhaps a better term would be, eye-stillness,
rotational-stillness, stable eye-in-head, or something similar.
Response: We agree with the reviewer, and have changed all mentions of a
‘stillness’ definition to an ‘eye-stillness’ definition, except when ‘stillness’ was
already followed by reference to the eye.
- The authors may consider promoting terminology, such as “eye-in-head,” or
“gaze-in- world” signal, which resolve ambiguities related to frames of reference. I
struggle to find the first manuscript to adopt this terminology, and wonder if it was
first adopted by the Hayhoe lab. Mary may be a good resource on the matter.
Response: We have added this terminology in the introduction when frames of
reference are first discussed. Such terminology occurs at least back in the work of
Collewijn (1977).
“Such frames of reference may also be termed eye-in-head or gaze-in-world/eye-in-
space \citep[e.g.][]{Collewijn:1977wu,Hayhoe:2003wm}”
- Line 457: represent to represents
- Line 724: change velocities to classification functions.
Response: We have adopted these suggestions in the manuscript.
Society Open
