Stretching the truth: length data highlight falsification of
Japanese sperm whale catch statistics in the Southern
Hemisphere
Phillip J. Clapham and Yulia V. Ivashchenko
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160506.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160506
Review timeline
Original submission: 12 July 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 8 August 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 9 August 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160506.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Toshio Kasuya)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
(1) Sperm whales make latitudinal segregation by sex and age. Therefore it will be useful to
make better description of geography of operations analyzed.
(2) It is OK to cite Kasuya (1999) and Kondo and Kasuya (2002). However, it will be also
useful to cite “Cooke, de la Mare and Beddington (1983), Some Aspect of the Reliability of the
Length Data for the Western North Pacific Stock of Sperm Whale, Rep. int. Whaling Comm. 33:
265-267”.
(3) An parenthesis seems to be missing on Lines 141and 142.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Peter Thomas)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Reference is made to "The Soviet dataset from this article has been uploaded as part of the
supplementary material." but I was not sure from the pdf provided where the icon was to access
it.
There was a clear section after the Discussion titled Data - I assume this is where that icon would
go.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Thank you for a nice concise paper unearthing and analyzing important discrepancies and
falsifications in Japanese Southern Hemisphere whaling data. Always ironic that this is done
through your understanding of Soviet transgressions.
The only comment I have is to include a little more detail in the Introduction to better
differentiate when the authors are referring to the Soviet and or the Japanese data or
3
circumstances and to the IWC. I got confused. For example, the last sentence of first para. can be
amended to read, " Data falsifications in both the land-based and pelagic North Pacific Japanese
fisheries involved increasing the reported lengths of undersized animals to figures at or above the
International Whaling Commission's (IWC) 11.6 m minimum length..."
I am also interested the authors' views on why the difference between the two nations' post-IOS
LSF figures was highly significant. Visual inspection of the post IOS graph in Figure 1 made me
think they were pretty similar - and that seemed to support the overall point of pre-IOS
falsification. It may not be needed for the paper, but this left a question in my mind of why differ
significantly.
Readers might be interested to know why more detailed analyses of male catch statistics were not
done. Is this to be explored further or is it felt it is not worth the time and effort to do?
Thanks for the opportunity to review this manuscript.
Peter Thomas
Marine Mammal Commission
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160506)
08-Aug-2016
Dear Dr Clapham
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160506 entitled
"Stretching the truth: length data highlight falsification of Japanese sperm whale catch statistics in
the Southern Hemisphere" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
4
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160506
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 17-Aug-2016). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
5
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
(1) Sperm whales make latitudinal segregation by sex and age. Therefore it will be useful to
make better description of geography of operations analyzed.
(2) It is OK to cite Kasuya (1999) and Kondo and Kasuya (2002). However, it will be also
useful to cite “Cooke, de la Mare and Beddington (1983), Some Aspect of the Reliability of the
Length Data for the Western North Pacific Stock of Sperm Whale, Rep. int. Whaling Comm. 33:
265-267”.
(3) An parenthesis seems to be missing on Lines 141and 142.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Thank you for a nice concise paper unearthing and analyzing important discrepancies and
falsifications in Japanese Southern Hemisphere whaling data. Always ironic that this is done
through your understanding of Soviet transgressions.
The only comment I have is to include a little more detail in the Introduction to better
differentiate when the authors are referring to the Soviet and or the Japanese data or
circumstances and to the IWC. I got confused. For example, the last sentence of first para. can be
amended to read, " Data falsifications in both the land-based and pelagic North Pacific Japanese
fisheries involved increasing the reported lengths of undersized animals to figures at or above the
International Whaling Commission's (IWC) 11.6 m minimum length..."
I am also interested the authors' views on why the difference between the two nations' post-IOS
LSF figures was highly significant. Visual inspection of the post IOS graph in Figure 1 made me
6
think they were pretty similar - and that seemed to support the overall point of pre-IOS
falsification. It may not be needed for the paper, but this left a question in my mind of why differ
significantly.
Readers might be interested to know why more detailed analyses of male catch statistics were not
done. Is this to be explored further or is it felt it is not worth the time and effort to do?
Thanks for the opportunity to review this manuscript.
Peter Thomas
Marine Mammal Commission
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160506)
See Appendix A.
Response to Referee Comments
ewer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
Sperm whales make latitudinal segregation by sex and age. Therefore it will be useful to make better
ription of geography of operations analyzed.
response to this useful comment, we have added a new section to Results which describes the segregation
bited by sperm whales and examines the spatial distribution of whaling effort between the two countries. We
also modified the second paragraph of Discussion accordingly, which now reads:
“Nor can the difference between Soviet and Japanese length distributions be explained by
geographic differences, since both whaling operations overlapped in their spatial and temporal
hunting effort, and neither country caught more than a few females south of 50 S.”
It is OK to cite Kasuya (1999) and Kondo and Kasuya (2002). However, it will be also useful to cite “Cooke,
Mare and Beddington (1983), Some Aspect of the Reliability of the Length Data for the Western North Pacific
k of Sperm Whale, Rep. int. Whaling Comm. 33: 265-267”.
e think this reference - which does not deal with the Southern Hemisphere - has been largely superceded by
hchenko and Clapham (2015), which cited it; however, we have added it into the Introduction of the revised
An parenthesis seems to be missing on Lines 141and 142.
xed, thanks.
ewer: 2
ments to the Author(s)
k you for a nice concise paper unearthing and analyzing important discrepancies and falsifications in Japanese
hern Hemisphere whaling data. Always ironic that this is done through your understanding of Soviet
gressions.
anks.
only comment I have is to include a little more detail in the Introduction to better differentiate when the authors
eferring to the Soviet and or the Japanese data or circumstances and to the IWC. I got confused. For example,
ast sentence of first para. can be amended to read, " Data falsifications in both the land-based and pelagic North
fic Japanese fisheries involved increasing the reported lengths of undersized animals to figures at or above the
national Whaling Commission's (IWC) 11.6 m minimum length..."
ne, thanks.
also interested the authors' views on why the difference between the two nations' post-IOS LSF figures was
ly significant. Visual inspection of the post IOS graph in Figure 1 made me think they were pretty similar - and
seemed to support the overall point of pre-IOS falsification. It may not be needed for the paper, but this left a
tion in my mind of why differ significantly.
is is a good point, although we have no explanation for it. We have amended the Discussion text as follows:
“Further evidence of illegal catches is that the difference between the pre- and post-IOS Japanese
figures for the percentage of females larger than 11.5 m was significantly different, with far fewer
in the catch after 1971. The overall distribution of length frequencies after 1971 was very similar
between the two nations (Figure 1); however, it is unclear why there were still significantly more
LSFs in the post-IOS Japanese catch compared to that of the USSR.”
ored further or is it felt it is not worth the time and effort to do?
e provided only a cursory examination of the male catch in the original MS, largely because the much larger
of male sperm whales made analysis of figures around the 11.6 minimum less instructive. However, we agree
the referee that a little more detail would be useful for the reader; accordingly, we have added to this analysis
now include a separate section for males that provides some more information on those catches.
Society Open
