Cu1–xFexO: hopping transport and ferromagnetism
Mohd. Nasir, Rakibul Islam, Md. A Ahmed, Saniya Ayaz, Gautham Kumar, Sunil Kumar,
C. L. Prajapat, Frederick Roussel, Sajal Biring and Somaditya Sen
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170339.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170339
Review timeline
Original submission: 11 April 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 7 August 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170339.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors report on the structural, electronic and magnetic properties of the Fe doped CuO
powders. The CuO is an interesting material in the studies of dilute magnetic semiconductors
and multiferroic materials recently, because the CuO shows the rare coexistence between anti-
ferromagnetism and ferroelectricity at the room temperature. Nevertheless, there is a lot of
interest in modifying this material in order to make it shows the ferromagnetism. So, the results
presented here are useful and of interest to the community working on multiferroic materials.
The key result of the manuscript is that the electric conductivities of Fe3+ substituted Cu1-xFexO
decrease, while the weak ferromagnetism becomes stronger with the increase of Fe content. I find
this result to be quite nice so I would like to recommend publication after the authors consider
the suggestions below.
(1) Why the authors feel the need to introduce this work in the context of dilute magnetic
semiconductors and multiferroic materials never really becomes clear in this manuscript, but I
feel it has significantly lowered the potential impact of the work.
(2) The authors say that the increase of ferromagnetism is because of the reducing lattice
parameters. To demonstrate this, the Ref. 27 was cited. However, the results of in the Ref. 27 also
showed that exchange interaction mainly depends on the spin-phonon interaction in CuO. The
authors should link their findings to this reason.
(3) The authors say that the exchange interactions of Fe-O-Cu and Fe-O-
the normal Fe3+-O2--Cu2+. They should give more evidence to support their conclusion.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In this article, the authors have investigated the structural, magnetic and electric properties of Fe-
doped CuO powders prepared by Sol-gel and they are demanding that RT ferromagnetism in this
Fe doped oxide is due to solely for Fe substitution. In fact, magnetic properties of transition-metal
(TM) doped CuO semiconductors have been studied widely since last decade. However, still the
3
magnetic properties of TM-based DMS remained highly controversial. Therefore, people need to
be very careful to investigate TM-doped oxides, like Fe-doped CuO here, about formation of any
TM secondary phases or impurity phase which often leads to exhibit non-DMS (unwanted)
related ferromagnetism. To review the present manuscript, I found that the mode of presentation
of the paper to reach a stable conclusion is very poor. There are some points that are not clear at
all. English needs to be largely improved (wording and grammar), there are many language
problems or mistakes. The manuscript needs a major revision and the following points have to be
considered before the paper becomes worthy to be published.1. The introduction part of this
article is a little narrow in range. Study of CuO based DMSs is not a fresh new one and people
have done lots of investigation over the past one and half decades. Therefore, the authors should
aware about the available literatures and try to make a very focused, detailed study which will
certainly help to overcome the existing controversial rather than increasing the counts. Therefore,
my suggestion is that the authors should try to write a focused consolidate introduction and to
make a proper justification of the results considering the broad range of this field of DMS. 2. The
author claimed to prepare the “Nanocrystalline Cu1-xFexO (x = 0, 0.027, 0.055, 0.097 and 0.125)
powders”, the content should be x=2.7, 5.5, 9.7, 12.5?? Please revise this in the manuscript.3. In
experimental method part, the author claimed that “the electronic properties of the constituent
ions were investigated using x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) system”. The XPS technique
can measure the electronic properties of ions? Please revise this!4. In Fig.1, please provide a full
XRD pattern, 20-80(2-theta range), which helps to focus some tiny peaks and assure that no
secondary or impurity phases are present. Author should aware that XRD are not a very
sensitive tool to identify very small amount (0.001%) of impurity. Therefore XRD is not very
reliable to make a final conclusion regarding the presence of impurity phases.5. In Fig.2, the
author should provide the O 1s XPS spectrum to identify the existence of oxygen vacancy. 6.
Some important information about sample characterization is missing. For example, How the Fe
doping concentration was measured? The error in determining the Fe percentage? The Fe content
is homogeneity in samples? Is Cu Ka radiation in the X-ray diffraction? <U+03BB> value?7. The
discussions about magnetic characterization are inadequate, especially for the origin of
ferromagnetism. The author claimed that “oxygen vacancies have played an important role on
magnetism by actively contributing metal oxygen-metal double exchange contribution”. The
double exchange interaction can be considered as the origin of ferromagnetism, but the author
should discuss the relation between the Ms and Fe content, especially for the Fe3+ content. How
did the Fe3+ content vary with increasing Fe contents? This is also not clear!! And should be
identified by XPS!! This is also important! On the other hand, recently, theoretical calculations
and experimental results suggest that the introducing of oxygen vacancy in the transition-metal
oxide materials can largely influence on the electronic structure of host oxides and remarkably
enhance the ferromagnetism. For examples: ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 4, 2048 (2012); Appl.
Phys. Lett. 102, 212411 (2013); Phys. Rev.B 74, 161306(R) (2006); Appl. Surf. Sci. 276, 535 (2013).
The orbitals of electrons locally trapped by oxygen vacancy overlap with the d shells of
neighbouring TM, and the formation of TM-VO-TM groups is the key in achieving ferromagnetic
ordering. Author should incorporate such discussion in context of the above references while
preparing their revised manuscript.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170339)
18-Jul-2017
Dear Professor Sen,
Title: Cu1–xFexO: Hopping Transport And Ferromagnetism
Manuscript ID: RSOS-170339
4
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 10-Aug-2017). If we do not hear
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Liisa Niitsoo
Publishing Editor
Royal Society of Chemistry
Email: chemistryopenscience@rsc.org
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 432167
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor
Professor Claire Carmalt.
**********************************************
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
5
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors report on the structural, electronic and magnetic properties of the Fe doped CuO
powders. The CuO is an interesting material in the studies of dilute magnetic semiconductors
and multiferroic materials recently, because the CuO shows the rare coexistence between anti-
ferromagnetism and ferroelectricity at the room temperature. Nevertheless, there is a lot of
interest in modifying this material in order to make it shows the ferromagnetism. So, the results
presented here are useful and of interest to the community working on multiferroic materials.
The key result of the manuscript is that the electric conductivities of Fe3+ substituted Cu1-xFexO
decrease, while the weak ferromagnetism becomes stronger with the increase of Fe content. I find
this result to be quite nice so I would like to recommend publication after the authors consider
the suggestions below.
(1) Why the authors feel the need to introduce this work in the context of dilute magnetic
semiconductors and multiferroic materials never really becomes clear in this manuscript, but I
feel it has significantly lowered the potential impact of the work.
(2) The authors say that the increase of ferromagnetism is because of the reducing lattice
parameters. To demonstrate this, the Ref. 27 was cited. However, the results of in the Ref. 27 also
showed that exchange interaction mainly depends on the spin-phonon interaction in CuO. The
authors should link their findings to this reason.
(3) The authors say that the exchange interactions of Fe-O-Cu and Fe-O-• are stronger than
the normal Fe3+-O2--Cu2+. They should give more evidence to support their conclusion.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
In this article, the authors have investigated the structural, magnetic and electric properties of Fe-
doped CuO powders prepared by Sol-gel and they are demanding that RT ferromagnetism in this
Fe doped oxide is due to solely for Fe substitution. In fact, magnetic properties of transition-metal
(TM) doped CuO semiconductors have been studied widely since last decade. However, still the
magnetic properties of TM-based DMS remained highly controversial. Therefore, people need to
be very careful to investigate TM-doped oxides, like Fe-doped CuO here, about formation of any
TM secondary phases or impurity phase which often leads to exhibit non-DMS (unwanted)
related ferromagnetism.
To review the present manuscript, I found that the mode of presentation of the paper to reach a
stable conclusion is very poor. There are some points that are not clear at all. English needs to be
largely improved (wording and grammar), there are many language problems or mistakes. The
manuscript needs a major revision and the following points have to be considered before the
paper becomes worthy to be published.
1. The introduction part of this article is a little narrow in range. Study of CuO based DMSs is not
a fresh new one and people have done lots of investigation over the past one and half decades.
Therefore, the authors should aware about the available literatures and try to make a very
focused, detailed study which will certainly help to overcome the existing controversial rather
than increasing the counts. Therefore, my suggestion is that the authors should try to write a
focused consolidate introduction and to make a proper justification of the results considering the
broad range of this field of DMS.
2. The author claimed to prepare the “Nanocrystalline Cu1-xFexO (x = 0, 0.027, 0.055, 0.097 and
0.125) powders”, the content should be x=2.7, 5.5, 9.7, 12.5?? Please revise this in the manuscript.
3. In experimental method part, the author claimed that “the electronic properties of the
constituent ions were investigated using x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) system”. The
XPS technique can measure the electronic properties of ions? Please revise this!
4. In Fig.1, please provide a full XRD pattern, 20-80(2-theta range), which helps to focus some tiny
peaks and assure that no secondary or impurity phases are present. Author should aware that
6
XRD are not a very sensitive tool to identify very small amount (0.001%) of impurity. Therefore
XRD is not very reliable to make a final conclusion regarding the presence of impurity phases.
5. In Fig.2, the author should provide the O 1s XPS spectrum to identify the existence of oxygen
vacancy.
6. Some important information about sample characterization is missing. For example, How the
Fe doping concentration was measured? The error in determining the Fe percentage? The Fe
content is homogeneity in samples? Is Cu Ka radiation in the X-ray diffraction? <U+03BB> value?
7. The discussions about magnetic characterization are inadequate, especially for the origin of
ferromagnetism. The author claimed that “oxygen vacancies have played an important role on
magnetism
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170339)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170339.R1)
07-Aug-2017
Dear Professor Sen:
Title: Cu1–xFexO: Hopping Transport And Ferromagnetism
Manuscript ID: RSOS-170339.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Siobhán
Dr Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
***************************
Appendix A
Editor-in-Chief,
R. Soc. Open Sci.,
The Royal Society Publishing
Sub: Submission of revised manuscript ID: RSOS-170339; “Cu1-xFexO:
Hopping Transport and Ferromagnetism”
Dear Editor,
Let us thank you for providing us the opportunity to revise our submission to R.
Soc. Open Sci. We generously thank reviewers for their critical comments on
magnetism which compelled us to discuss our magnetization results more
critically. We have elaborated on magnetism which we missed earlier. Hence
we are obliged to the reviewer for mentioning in their comments.
I am attaching a point-wise response to the reviewers’ comments. We have
amended the manuscript accordingly and hope that the revised manuscript is in
line with the reviewers’ expectations.
Respectfully Yours,
Dr Somaditya Sen
Referee # 1,
Dear Sir,
We would like to thank you for detailed analysis and valuable comments on our
manuscript, where we tried to follow your recommendations in this revised
version. In the amended article, all corrections are in yellow color.
Comment: Why the authors feel the need to introduce this work in the context of
dilute magnetic semiconductors and multiferroic materials never really
becomes clear in this manuscript, but I feel it has significantly lowered the
potential impact of the work.
Response: We have rewritten introduction in the revised version of the text.
Comment: The authors say that the increase of ferromagnetism is because of
the reducing lattice parameters. To demonstrate this, the Ref. 27 was cited.
However, the results of in the Ref. 27 also showed that exchange interaction
mainly depends on the spin-phonon interaction in CuO. The authors should link
their findings to this reason.
Response: Taking the reviewers comment seriously we have mentioned in the
text why lattice constant is responsible for the changes. Reduction in lattice
parameters is supposed to change phonon modes and may increase spin-phonon
coupling. As spin-phonon coupling is a major component for exchange integral
hence it is responsible for ferromagnetic ordering.
Comment: The authors say that the exchange interactions of Fe-O-Cu and Fe-
O-<U+F07F> are stronger than the normal Fe3+-O2--Cu2+. They should give more
evidence to support their conclusion.
Response: Considerable cation vacancies exist in Fe doped CuO and increase
with increasing Fe3+ content. The magnetic moment also increase with
increasing Fe3+ substitution, So we believe that the exchange interaction of Fe-
O-<U+F07F> might be stronger than normal Fe3+-O2--Cu2+ interaction. The evidence of
such kind of strong coupling is also available in literature [Ref 7] which has
now been provided in the introduction and also in the main text. Sorry that we
had missed the reference in our previously submitted draft.
Once again, Thanks!
Sincerely,
Dr S. Sen
Referee # 2
Dear Sir,
We would like to thank you for detailed analysis and valuable comments on our
manuscript. We are extremely thankful to you, especially for your critical
comment on magnetism. This compelled us to look more critically at our
magnetization results. We indeed have found some interesting physics which
we somehow missed earlier.
We tried to rectify the draft in this revised version according to your
suggestions and comments. We have shown the main amendments in yellow
color in the text and in figure captions, and discussed as follows:
Comment: The introduction part of this article is a little narrow in range. Study
of CuO based DMSs is not a fresh new one and people have done lots of
investigation over the past one and half decades. Therefore, the authors should
aware about the available literatures and try to make a very focused, detailed
study which will certainly help to overcome the existing controversial rather
than increasing the counts. Therefore, my suggestion is that the authors should
try to write a focused consolidate introduction and to make a proper
justification of the results considering the broad range of this field of DMS.
Response: As per the suggestion of the reviewer, we have modified
introduction part in the revised version of the text. It is to be mentioned that
while preparing the samples and writing this draft we had intentionally gone
through a lot of literature to understand what can be the shortcomings which
may lead to ambiguous results. That is why before doing magnetization we had
already checked the purity and structural studies of the material which itself has
been a published work [ref. 13]. The entire purpose of the work was to judge the
magnetism and find an answer to the various opinions about magnetism in this
material. Being sure enough that the samples are homogenous and single phase
we have ventured to study the magnetization. We have compared various
thoughts on the magnetism and ultimately suggested our views.
Comment: The author claimed to prepare the “Nanocrystalline Cu1-xFexO (x =
0, 0.027, 0.055, 0.097 and 0.125) powders”, the content should be x=2.7, 5.5,
9.7, 12.5?? Please revise this in the manuscript.
Response: With due respect to the reviewer we want to point out that the
reviewer may have confused between substitution percentage and fraction. In a
chemical formula generally it is the fraction that is mentioned and we think we
are correct to write x = 0, 0.027, 0.055, 0.097 and 0.125, meaning % = 2.7, 5.5,
9.7, 12.5. So we request the reviewer to kindly consider this as correct.
Comments: In experimental method part, the author claimed that “the
electronic properties of the constituent ions were investigated using x-ray
photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) system”. The XPS technique can measure the
electronic properties of ions? Please revise this!
Response: We have revised this.
Comment: In Fig.1, please provide a full XRD pattern, 20-80(2-theta range),
which helps to focus some tiny peaks and assure that no secondary or impurity
phases are present. Author should aware that XRD are not a very sensitive tool
to identify very small amount (0.001%) of impurity. Therefore XRD is not very
reliable to make a final conclusion regarding the presence of impurity phases.
Response: As per reviewer’s requirement, we have provided full XRD spectra
in the 2<U+03B8> range 300-800. We did not record data in the 2<U+03B8> range 200-800, as no
peak exist below 200 in CuO diffraction pattern. We totally agree that XRD is
not a very high sensitive tool towards determining phase purity. That is why we
have mentioned and related this work with the structural and x-ray absorption
studies of these materials which has already been published [Ref. 13]. It has
already been proved that the local environment of Fe3+ and Cu2+ are similar
suggesting that Fe addition is a substitution. Also from XPS studies we have
further emphasized on the substitution and absence of any impurities.
Comment: In Fig.2, the author should provide the O 1s XPS spectrum to
identify the existence of oxygen vacancy.
Response: Fitted O 1s XPS spectra have be included. Spectra show a reduction
in oxygen vacancies with increasing Fe content.
Comment: Some important information about sample characterization is
missing. For example, How the Fe doping concentration was measured? The
error in determining the Fe percentage? The Fe content is homogeneity in
samples? Is Cu Ka radiation in the X-ray diffraction? <U+03BB> value?
Response: Fe doping concentration was primarily measured with EDX using
Supra FESEM. Elemental homogeneity was also checked in these samples
using EDX. Proper substitution is ensured from EXAFS analysis. Fe is
homogeneously substituted in CuO [Ref 13]. Cu Ka source is used with
<U+03BB>=1.54Å.
Comment: The discussions about magnetic characterization are inadequate,
especially for the origin of ferromagnetism. The author claimed that “oxygen
vacancies have played an important role on magnetism by actively contributing
metal oxygen-metal double exchange contribution”. The double exchange
interaction can be considered as the origin of ferromagnetism, but the author
should discuss the relation between the Ms and Fe content, especially for the
Fe3+ content. How did the Fe3+ content vary with increasing Fe contents?
This is also not clear!! And should be identified by XPS!! This is also important!
On the other hand, recently, theoretical calculations and experimental results
suggest that the introducing of oxygen vacancy in the transition-metal oxide
materials can largely influence on the electronic structure of host oxides and
remarkably enhance the ferromagnetism. For examples: ACS Appl. Mater.
Interfaces, 4, 2048 (2012); Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 212411 (2013); Phys. Rev.B
74, 161306(R) (2006); Appl. Surf. Sci. 276, 535 (2013). The orbitals of
electrons locally trapped by oxygen vacancy overlap with the d shells of
neighbouring TM, and the formation of TM-VO-TM groups is the key in
achieving ferromagnetic ordering. Author should incorporate such discussion
in context of the above references while preparing their revised manuscript.
Response: Keeping reviewers suggestion in mind, we have reconstituted the
paragraphs on magnetism. The M-H curve does not saturate until 5000 Oe field.
So, we have plotted magnetic moment at a fixed field of 5000 Oe. The magnetic
moment increases with increase in Fe3+ content. The amount of Fe3+ increases
with increasing Fe content. The impurity issue has already been discussed in our
previous report with XAS studies [Ref 13]. For lower doped samples the XPS
data is very weak for Fe 2p edge. Hence we are not able to estimate the Fe 3+
concentration in our samples through XPS. However, XAS has provided some
estimates to assess the concentration.
We believe that the revised version is improved and will bear more scientific
relevance to the readers. Thanks again to you for your comments and
suggestions on our report.
Sincerely,
Dr S Sen
Society Open
