Life history of the most complete fossil primate skeleton:
exploring growth models for Darwinius
Sergi López-Torres, Michael A. Schillaci and Mary T. Silcox
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150340.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150340
Review timeline
Original submission: 11 May 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 13 July 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 6 August 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 11 August 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150200.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Siobhan Cooke)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The authors may want to consider providing their Mesquite file for download. Currently, they do
provide the dental eruption characters, so the reader can mull over the data, but having the file
might make things easier. It isn't something I would require though.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
López-Torres and colleagues make a convincing argument for using strepsirrhine primates to
model growth in Darwinius. They adequately discuss way Saimiri is an inappropriate model due
to its derived dental eruption sequence and growth trajectory. I have only a few minor comments
to improve the manuscript. I believe that this manuscript will provide an important contribution
for understanding Darwinius as a taxon and early primate evolution more generally. Detailed
comments are on the attached pdf (available upon request).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
1. Page 3 line 7 – page 4 line 40, the introduction about the phylogenetic relationship
between adapiforms and other primates can be condensed. The relationships between
anthropoids, tarsiiforms, adapiforms and lemuriforms have been reviewed thoroughly for many
times. The authors also exaggerated the influence of the adapiform-anthropoid school. Very few
people hold this idea. In recent years, no phylogenetic analysis based on reasonable taxon
sampling and large number of characters supports this hypothesis.
2. Page 5, line 31-32, Franzen et al. (2009) suggested that “Ida” is a female based on the
speculation of lacking baculum in the animal. However, “Ida” was a juvenile. The heterotopic
skeleton, such as baculum may not have developed. The animal also has a very large upper
canine in eruption. The authors probably cannot exclude the possibility that “Ida” was a male
indeed.
3. Page 7, line 41-46, it is better to provide a few examples to interpret how the characters
were defined to avoid conflicting results.
4. Page 7, from line 49, the authors should make it clear how the phylogenetic tree in figure
2 was composed. They should give some explanations about why they select the trees they used
here, and ignored some other trees based on comprehensive data matrices, such as the trees of
3
Springer et al. 2012 and Ni et al., 2013. It is also necessary to give clear explanation how the
authors dealt with the conflicting topologies among different trees. Apidium and Simonius were
put as the most basal platyrrhines in this manuscript. I think the readers will be very interested to
know why they were put there and how many evidences supporting this arrangement.
5. Page 8, line 22-25, plesiadapiforms is not regarded as a nature group universally. It is
better to have some independent references here. A definition of plesiadapiforms will be very
helpful.
6. Franzen et al. (2009) did not give detailed explanation about how they determined the
tooth eruption sequence. Do the authors acquire more evidences?
7. Page 11, line 21, the authors picked the taxonomic terms on a whim. Here it appears
Adapoidea and Omomyidea, whereas in fig. 2 the authors used stem Strepsirrhini and Tarsiidae.
Please make it clear whose systematic framework the authors are using.
8. Page 15, line 30-37, it is seems that the authors are very reluctant to take Darwinius as a
strepsirrhine primate. The ambiguous arguments through the whole manuscript make the reads
hard to understand where Darwinius should be fitted in the “phylogenetic tree” composed by the
authors. Is it possible to put Darwinius in the Figure 2?
9. Figure 3, about the data points, do they represent different individuals, same individual
multiple measures, or multiple individuals plus multiple measures? What kind of software was
used to make this “regression”? Where are the equations?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150200)
25-Jun-2015
Dear Mr López-Torres:
Manuscript ID RSOS-150200 entitled "Life history of the most complete fossil primate skeleton:
exploring growth models for Darwinius" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science,
has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted by 23-Dec-2015. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
4
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150340)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150340.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, the supplementary data is adequate, clear and accessible.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
All my concerns have been addressed. Although I do not agree with the authors on some issues, I
respect their ideas and choices. I think the revised manuscript can be accepted now.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150340)
31-Jul-2015
Dear Mr López-Torres
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150340 entitled
"Life history of the most complete fossil primate skeleton: exploring growth models for
Darwinius" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
5
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 09-Aug-2015). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
6
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Dr Kevin Padian
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments by Reviewer #1:
1.- “Page 3 line 7 – page 4 line 40, the introduction about the phylogenetic
relationship between adapiforms and other primates can be condensed. The
relationships between anthropoids, tarsiiforms, adapiforms and lemuriforms have
been reviewed thoroughly for many times. The authors also exaggerated the influence
of the adapiform-anthropoid school. Very few people hold this idea. In recent years,
no phylogenetic analysis based on reasonable taxon sampling and large number of
characters supports this hypothesis.”
We have condensed the introduction and clarified that the Adapoid-Strepsirrhine
Hypothesis is currently more widely accepted, which is aligned with our results.
However, since we are responding to Franzen et al. (2009), which supports the adapoid-
anthropoid school, it is necessary for us to mention that school of thought even if it is in
the minority.
2.- “Page 5, line 31-32, Franzen et al. (2009) suggested that “Ida” is a female based
on the speculation of lacking baculum in the animal. However, “Ida” was a juvenile.
The heterotopic skeleton, such as baculum may not have developed. The animal also
has a very large upper canine in eruption. The authors probably cannot exclude the
possibility that “Ida” was a male indeed.”
Reviewer #1 raises a good point when saying that there is no definitive evidence
that “Ida” was a female. We have added a mention of this issue to the paper. With
respect to our analyses. We have included all the male data from the Duke Lemur
Center online database to our plots so that our results are not affected by the assumption
that the skeleton represents a female.
3.- “Page 7, line 41-46, it is better to provide a few examples to interpret how the
characters were defined to avoid conflicting results.”
We have provided an example explaining how we dealt with conflicting
ancestral reconstructions which should now make this process clear.
4.- “Page 7, from line 49, the authors should make it clear how the phylogenetic tree
in figure 2 was composed. They should give some explanations about why they select
the trees they used here, and ignored some other trees based on comprehensive data
matrices, such as the trees of Springer et al. 2012 and Ni et al., 2013. It is also
necessary to give clear explanation how the authors dealt with the conflicting
topologies among different trees. Apidium and Simonsius were put as the most basal
platyrrhines in this manuscript. I think the readers will be very interested to know
why they were put there and how many evidences supporting this arrangement.”
For the relationships among living primates, we used Arnold et al’s (2010) tree.
This tree actually differs little from Springer et al.’s (2012). The main differences are
the positions of Allocebus, Galago moholi, Galago gallarum, and Mandrillus. Because
all these are well nested within living groups, their position would not influence the
ancestral state reconstruction of nodes as deep as the basal crown strepsirrhine or the
basal anthropoid. Also, we wanted to include branch lengths, and Arnold et al.’s (2010)
tree provides a downloadable cladogram with branch lengths incorporated and easy to
use in Mesquite.
For the fossils, we mainly used Steiper and Seiffert (2012) for most euprimates,
and Silcox et al. (2010) for stem primates and outgroups. Although we acknowledge the
relevance Ni et al.’s (2013) tree, as discussed in the cover letter, we chose to retain the
pattern of relationships from Silcox et al. (2010). We have nonetheless cited and
acknowledged both Springer et al. (2012) and Ni et al. (2013) in our paper now.
Reviewer #1 also expressed concerns about the positions of Apidium and
Simonsius (=Parapithecus). We share these concerns. One of the main effects of
upating the underlying basis of our supertree from Steiper and Seiffert (2012) to Seiffert
et al. (2015) was that these taxa went from being basal platyrrhines to basal anthropoids,
which agrees with the results found in Ni et al. (2013) and it is also more consistent
with Kay et al.’s (2014) comprehensive study of platyrrhine relationships. Having said
that, actually placing parapithecids as basal anthropoids did not change the results of
our analysis.
We have also included for each source of phylogenies which taxa we used.
5.- “Page 8, line 22-25, plesiadapiforms is not regarded as a nature group universally.
It is better to have some independent references here. A definition of plesiadapiforms
will be very helpful.”
We have included a description of plesiadapiforms and how they are regarded in
terms of their phylogenetic position.
6.- “Franzen et al. (2009) did not give detailed explanation about how they
determined the tooth eruption sequence. Do the authors acquire more evidences?”
As Reviewer #1 points out, it is true that Franzen et al. (2009) did not provide a
detailed explanation on how they determined the dental eruption sequence for
Darwinius. However, these authors did show which teeth are erupted, and document the
state of development of other teeth. We used this information in our interpretation, and
generally agree that the eruption sequence given in Franzen et al. (2009) matches the
data from the fossil. Short of destructive sampling (for which we do not have
permission), no further evidence is available.
7.- “Page 11, line 21, the authors picked the taxonomic terms on a whim. Here it
appears Adapoidea and Omomyidea, whereas in fig. 2 the authors used stem
Strepsirrhini and Tarsiidae. Please make it clear whose systematic framework the
authors are using.”
The systematic framework that we are using is that of Fleagle (2013), the most
broadly accepted textbook relevant to this topic. We would like to emphasize that,
although adapoids are sometimes used as a synonym of stem strepsirrhines, all stem
strepsirrhines don’t necessarily have to be adapoids (and vice versa). Hence the
distinction between these two terms, which is actually critical to clearly communicating
the results of our analysis.
As for the term “Tarsiidae”, we are referring to the living tarsiers. The dental
eruption sequence that we obtained for Tarsiidae was provided by Guthrie and Frost
(2011) for the genus Tarsius generally. However, Guthrie and Frost (2011) included in
the sample Tarsius spectrum, Carlito syrichta, and Cephalopachus bancanus (all
grouped under the genus Tarsius in their paper). So we thought that englobing their
dental eruption sequence under the family Tarsiidae would be the most appropriate. We
don’t think that this is in conflict with the concept of Omomyoidea, since we consider
both superfamilies Omomyoidea and Tarsioidea to belong in the infraorder
Tarsiiformes.
8.- “Page 15, line 30-37, it is seems that the authors are very reluctant to take
Darwinius as a strepsirrhine primate. The ambiguous arguments through the whole
manuscript make the reads hard to understand where Darwinius should be fitted in
the “phylogenetic tree” composed by the authors. Is it possible to put Darwinius in
the Figure 2?”
Our goal in looking at the evolution of eruption sequences in a phylogenetic
context was to evaluate an independent source of data relevant to the interpretation of
Darwinius. Including Darwinius in the tree would obviously make those data non-
independent, so we very explicitly chose not to do that. The results of our paper indicate
that dental eruption sequences do carry phylogenetic signal, and can be used to make
inferences about relationships. Our results also indicate that Darwinius’ eruption
sequence differs significantly from that of anthropoids. Therefore, we can infer that
Darwinius is likely not an anthropoid based on eruption sequences. According to our
results, Darwinius could well be a stem strepsirrhine, but we do not have enough
evidence to make this statement to the exclusion of basal haplorhines. However, we
have included a friendlier tone towards the Adapoid-Strepsirrhine Hypothesis, which we
actually agree with, and took out some of the equivocating statements about the
meaning of our results.
9.- “Figure 3, about the data points, do they represent different individuals, same
individual multiple measures, or multiple individuals plus multiple measures? What
kind of software was used to make this “regression”? Where are the equations?”
Every data point represents an individual at a certain stage of development. So,
some of the points pertain to the same individual but at different stages of development.
We used PAST to make the Lowess regressions (we have included a reference to this
software package in the manuscript). We did not include equations, because Lowess
regression does not produce a regression function that is easily represented by a
mathematical formula. Indeed, this non-parametric method was used specifically
because it allows for a non-linear best fit curve through data that are difficult to
mathematically describe using parametric methods.
Comments by Reviewer #2:
1.- “You discuss below why these taxa were chosen, but I would recommend briefly
adding that information here. When I read this, I thought - well, why them? You
could say something, "because of life history and size variables Eulemur… were
chosen".”
We have clarified why Eulemur macaco, Eulemur rufus, and Varecia variegata
are chosen for the lemurid model in the methods section, using a similar wording to
what Reviewer #2 suggested.
2.- “These are captive weights, which are likely heavier than wild weights. How might
that affect your estimates?”
Reviewer #2 raises a good point about how collecting data from captive
individuals from the Duke Lemur Center (DLC) could affect the estimates of projected
body weight for Darwinius. Comparable growth data for wild populations are
unfortunately siply not available. To avoid potentially mixing data from different types
of sources, instead of calculating the percentage of adult body mass at “Ida’s” death
fusing adult body weights from Fleagle’s (2013) textbook (which does not document
the source of the data), we calculated the percentage from the adult weight obtained
from the Lowess regression for each species. This way, we keep internal consistency
inside each population. According to our graphs, Eulemur macaco and Varecia
variegata weigh more in that DLC sample than is the average adult body mass reported
in Fleagle (2013), but Eulemur rufus from DLC actually weighs less than Fleagle
(2013) reports. Once we used adult body weights from the DLC populations, we
actually see that the range of projected adult body weight falls entirely below the range
proposed by Franzen et al. (2009), instead of fully inside as we reported in our first
version.
3.- “This is a text - what is the original source? A field study? Multiple field studies?
Cite that/those. Does it replicate the weights from Duke?”
After addressing Comment #2 by Reviewer #2, we decided not to use Fleagle’s
(2013) estimates. See above.
4.- “Do the weights of these species differ by much (not likely) such that an average
weight would not represent actual weights for any of them. I don’t think that this is
the case, but it is worth mentioning that you feel the average weight would be
accurate for each individual species.”
The adult weights for these two species do not differ much. For example, Fleagle
(2013) reports 3575g for both of them.
5.- “Henderson (2007) has the following eruption sequence for Saimiri:
Max: M1 M2 I1 I2 P4 P3 P2 M3 C
Mand: M1 M2 I1 I2 P4 P2 P3 M3 C
So P2 isn't the "last to erupt but one." Or do you mean one of the last of the last of
the cebids? The pronouns are confusing here. Please revise this sentence to be more
clear.”
The issue here is that the eruption sequence from Henderson (2007) actually
differs from that presented by Franzen et al. (2009). We have discussed how
Henderson’s (2007) sequence for Saimiri would actually make the squirrel monkey an
even less appropriate model for Darwinius’ growth, but also how we feel we should
continue using the sequence that Franzen et al.’s (2009) used, since this paper is meant
to be a reply to the original article about Darwinius.
We have also modified the sentence to make it clearer.
6.- “Either refer to the table for the tarsier eruption sequence or refer to a citation. In
what way does the tarsier sequence differ?”
We have referred to Table 1 for the tarsier eruption sequence, and we have also
explained how it differs from that of the basal haplorhine.
Society Open
