Differential metal-binding properties of dynamic
acylhydrazone polymers and their sensing applications
Siheng Gao, Lijie Li, Ismail Vohra, Daijun Zha and Lei You
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170466.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170466
Review timeline
Original submission: 6 May 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 5 July 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 31 July 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170466.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This contribution describes the preparation of a series of acylhydrazone polymers through the
combination of a common dihydrazide with a series of dialdehydes and their application for the
sensing of different species. The results presented clearly illustrate the potential of these
polymeric structures for the development of sensing devices. However, the materials prepared,
according to the data here presented, are still quite far from their potential practical application
and much work is still needed before claiming they can be used for the sensing of a given species.
The authors need to make this clear in their discussion and conclusions. Thus, the conditions
used are quite far from real, practical condition (DMSO as the main solvent, which is not realistic
in particular for the biomedical application considered) and selectivity issues have not been
properly addressed. Overall, the manuscript contains valuable data and an interesting strategy in
this field and deserves being accepted for publication after some modifications.
Some additional comments:
1. The English language needs to be improved. Some illustrative examples have been
gathered below.
2. Line 29: 6-Mercaptopurine should be 6-mercaptopurine.
3. Responsive polymers should be added to the keywords.
4. Line 14: cor- responding should be corresponding.
5. Line 20: a combination of intrinsic recognition motif... should be: ....the combination of
the intrinsic recognition motifs..."
6. Line 42: For pyridine-2-carboxyaldehyde... should be "As pyridine-2-
carboxyaladehyde...."
7. Line 44: salicylalde- hyde should be salicylaldehyde.
8. Line 51: designed and outlined.... should be “designed as outlined...”.
9. 2.2. First paragraph, first line "common solvents, such as DMSO and DMF" should be
better to avoid the use of the adjective common for those solvents; just use "good solubility in
solvents such as...".
10. Below figure 2, line 23 "...which the aldehyde..." should be better "...for which the
aldehyde..."
11. Section 2.4, line 55: please revise the sentence "The results illustrate the less selectivity of
Cu2+" and explain better the experimental observation. The issue of selectivity needs to be better
addressed in the manuscript.
12. Section 2.5, first and second sentence. Please revise its grammar.
13. The contents of section 2.5 need to be revised. It is not easy, and most likely not correct,
to define the experimental results in terms of a cooperative effect. As the polymers studied are
acidic it was expected to find an effect associated to the basicity of the medium as this is most
likely the correct interpretation. The authors have studied the effect of the solvent but not the
effect of the pH of the medium. This should be the correct study to be carried out; in the absence
of such study, the data in this section are not very relevant.
14. The manuscript would benefit from including a short experimental section containing at
least the most essential elements for the synthesis of the polymers (general procedure)
15. In the title, the authors included the term dynamic. Although it is true that C=N bonds
represent some of the most used units in dynamic systems, the applications
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
3
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Some application should be performed i.e. test strip etc.
Naked-eye colour change picture should be included.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170466)
23-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Zha:
Title: Differential Metal Binding Properties of Dynamic Acylhydrazone Polymers and Their
Sensing Applications
Manuscript ID: RSOS-170466
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
4
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 02-Jul-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Dr Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society of Chemistry
Email: chemistryopenscience@rsc.org
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 432114
On behalf of the Subject Editor Dr Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Patricia Hunt.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
Please ensure you address the conceptual issues raised by the reviewers, in particular those about
practical application/demonstration and the discussion in section 2.5. In addition, do include
experimental details of the synthesis procedures and a figure as requested for observed colour-
changes.
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
Please note that one of the referees has recommended that major revisions are required before the
paper can be accepted for publication. In a covering letter, please list each of the points raised and
any changes made to the text in response.
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
This contribution describes the preparation of a series of acylhydrazone polymers through the
combination of a common dihydrazide with a series of dialdehydes and their application for the
sensing of different species. The results presented clearly illustrate the potential of these
polymeric structures for the development of sensing devices. However, the materials prepared,
according to the data here presented, are still quite far from their potential practical application
and much work is still needed before claiming they can be used for the sensing of a given species.
The authors need to make this clear in their discussion and conclusions. Thus, the conditions
used are quite far from real, practical condition (DMSO as the main solvent, which is not realistic
in particular for the biomedical application considered) and selectivity issues have not been
properly addressed. Overall, the manuscript contains valuable data and an interesting strategy in
this field and deserves being accepted for publication after some modifications.
Some additional comments:
1. The English language needs to be improved. Some illustrative examples have been
gathered below.
2. Line 29: 6-Mercaptopurine should be 6-mercaptopurine.
3. Responsive polymers should be added to the keywords.
4. Line 14: cor- responding should be corresponding.
6
5. Line 20: a combination of intrinsic recognition motif... should be: ....the combination of
the intrinsic recognition motifs..."
6. Line 42: For pyridine-2-carboxyaldehyde... should be "As pyridine-2-
carboxyaladehyde...."
7. Line 44: salicylalde- hyde should be salicylaldehyde.
8. Line 51: designed and outlined.... should be “designed as outlined...”.
9. 2.2. First paragraph, first line "common solvents, such as DMSO and DMF" should be
better to avoid the use of the adjective common for those solvents; just use "good solubility in
solvents such as...".
10. Below figure 2, line 23 "...which the aldehyde..." should be better "...for which the
aldehyde..."
11. Section 2.4, line 55: please revise the sentence "The results illustrate the less selectivity of
Cu2+" and explain better the experimental observation. The issue of selectivity needs to be better
addressed in the manuscript.
12. Section 2.5, first and second sentence. Please revise its grammar.
13. The contents of section 2.5 need to be revised. It is not easy, and most likely not correct,
to define the experimental results in terms of a cooperative effect. As the polymers studied are
acidic it was expected to find an effect associated to the basicity of the medium as this is most
likely the correct interpretation. The authors have studied the effect of the solvent but not the
effect of the pH of the medium. This should be the correct study to be carried out; in the absence
of such study, the data in this section are not very relevant.
14. The manuscript would benefit from including a short experimental section containing at
least the most essential elements for the synthesis of the polymers (general procedure)
15. In the title, the authors included the term dynamic. Although it is true that C=N bonds
represent some of the most used units in dynamic systems, the applications
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
Some application should be performed i.e. test strip etc.
Naked-eye colour change picture should be included.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170466)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170466.R1)
31-Jul-2017
Dear Dr Zha:
Title: Differential Metal Binding Properties of Dynamic Acylhydrazone Polymers and Their
Sensing Applications
Manuscript ID: RSOS-170466.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
7
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Siobhán
Dr Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society of Chemistry
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Patricia
Hunt.
***************************
Appendix A
Editorial Office
Royal Society Open Science
Dear Editor:
Thank you and the reviewers for comments on our manuscript entitled “Differential
Metal Binding Properties of Dynamic Acylhydrazone Polymers and Their Sensing
Applications” (RSOS-170466). We have carefully considered your and the reviewers’
comments and have revised the manuscript in accordance with these comments and
suggestions. In the revised manuscript, the changes were marked in red. We believe that
the manuscript has been improved and hope it will be accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
Thank you for your consideration of our work and best personal regards.
Dr. Daijun Zha
State Key Laboratory of Structural Chemistry
Fujian Institute of Research on the Structure of Matter
Chinese Academy of Sciences
Fuzhou, Fujian 350002
P. R. China.
Response to the Reviewer's comments
Response to Reviewer 1
Comment: This contribution describes the preparation of a series of acylhydrazone
polymers through the combination of a common dihydrazide with a series of
dialdehydes and their application for the sensing of different species. The results
presented clearly illustrate the potential of these polymeric structures for the
development of sensing devices. However, the materials prepared, according to the data
here presented, are still quite far from their potential practical application and much
work is still needed before claiming they can be used for the sensing of a given species.
The authors need to make this clear in their discussion and conclusions. Thus, the
conditions used are quite far from real, practical condition (DMSO as the main solvent,
which is not realistic in particular for the biomedical application considered) and
selectivity issues have not been properly addressed. Overall, the manuscript contains
valuable data and an interesting strategy in this field and deserves being accepted for
publication after some modifications.
Response: Thanks for the reviewer’s kindly comment and suggestion on our
manuscript. We have clarified that the goal of the sensing study in the current work is
a proof of concept. We are currently working on increasing the solubility of polymers
for studies in aqueous solutions.
Comment 1: The English language needs to be improved. Some illustrative examples
have been gathered below.
Response: Thanks for the reviewer’s kindly comment and suggestion on our manuscript.
According to reviewer’s recommendation, we have improved the English to make sure
our presentation as clear as possible in the revised manuscript.
Comment 2: Line 29: 6-Mercaptopurine should be 6-mercaptopurine.
Response: The mistake was corrected in the revised manuscript.
Comment 3: Responsive polymers should be added to the keywords.
Response: According to the reviewer’s suggestion, the keyword “responsive polymers”
was added to the modified version.
Comment 4: Line 14: cor-responding should be corresponding.
Response: It was updated in the revised manuscript.
Comment 5: Line 20: a combination of intrinsic recognition motif... should be: ....the
combination of the intrinsic recognition motifs..."
Comment 6: Line 42: For pyridine-2-carboxyaldehyde... should be "As pyridine-
2-carboxyaladehyde...."
Comment 7: Line 44: salicylalde- hyde should be salicylaldehyde.
Comment 8: Line 51: designed and outlined.... should be “designed as outlined...”.
Comment 9: 2.2. First paragraph, first line "common solvents, such as DMSO and
DMF" should be better to avoid the use of the adjective common for those solvents;
just use "good solubility in solvents such as...".
Comment 10: Below figure 2, line 23 "...which the aldehyde..." should be better
"...for which the aldehyde..."
Response: Thanks for the reviewer’s comments and suggestions. According to
reviewer’s recommendation, these mistakes were corrected in the revised manuscript.
Comment 11: Section 2.4, line 55: please revise the sentence "The results illustrate the
less selectivity of Cu2+" and explain better the experimental observation. The issue of
selectivity needs to be better addressed in the manuscript.
Response: Thanks for the reviewer’s comment and suggestion. According to reviewer’s
recommendation, we rewrote the section and now stated that “the discrimination
between Cu2+ and other metal ions became worse in relative to data in DMSO (Figure
3b)”.
Comment 12: Section 2.5, first and second sentences. Please revise its grammar.
Response: Thanks for the reviewer’s suggestion. According to reviewer’s
recommendation, we have revised the grammar. The revised sentences: We next set out
to diversify the responsiveness of our systems. The NH within acylhydrazone group
and phenol OH are weakly acidic.
Comment 13: The contents of section 2.5 need to be revised. It is not easy, and most
likely not correct, to define the experimental results in terms of a cooperative effect. As
the polymers studied are acidic it was expected to find an effect associated to the
basicity of the medium as this is most likely the correct interpretation. The authors have
studied the effect of the solvent but not the effect of the pH of the medium. This should
be the correct study to be carried out; in the absence of such study, the data in this
section are not very relevant.
Response: Thanks for the reviewer’s comment and suggestion.
The effect of pH of the medium was studied in our previous work (reference 48), and
it afforded similar results as weakly basic anions explored in the current work. We now
clarified this point in the revised manuscript.
Comment 14: The manuscript would benefit from including a short experimental
section containing at least the most essential elements for the synthesis of the polymers
(general procedure)
Response: Thanks for the reviewer’s suggestion. We now included a short experimental
section, including the details for the synthesis of polymers.
Comment 15: In the title, the authors included the term dynamic. Although it is true
that C=N bonds represent some of the most used units in dynamic systems, the
applications
Response: Acylhydrazone as a dynamic covalent bond have been studied in a large
number of references, including our work (reference 48).
Response to Reviewer 2
Some application should be performed i.e. test strip etc. naked-eye colour change
picture should be included.
Response: Thanks for the reviewer’s suggestion. The sensing can be performed in a
visualization manner, and the naked-eye color change picture was inserted in Figure 6
(b) in the revised manuscript.
Society Open
