Information theory, predictability and the emergence of
complex life
Luís F. Seoane and Ricard V. Solé
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172221.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172221
Review timeline
Original submission: 20 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 January 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 24 January 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172221.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an interesting paper, with an excellent framing in terms of basic questions in the theory of
evolution. There's clever framing, where bit guesses are predicting the environment and
rewarded for a correct guess by having descendants. This allows the authors to frame evolution
as an information theoretic "channel capacity" between generations.
In the end, the authors somewhat punt the problem of explaining why more complex life might
evolve: in particular, it's the complexity of the environment that drives organisms that can to seek
out these new, underpopulated niches. This raises the question: where does the environmental
complexity come from?
I think it worth mentioning this feature of the explanation; we still have a basic problem to solve,
and what the authors have shown is that given the existence of more complex environments,
more complex organisms can thrive. The "evolutionary driver that can push towards evermore
complex life forms" is, in the end, put in by hand in the definition of the environment. Perhaps
the authors can do a little work here to consider the possibility of complex organisms generating
more complex environments for each other to react to.
Finally, a relevant paper to consider is Marzen & DeDeo, the evolution of lossy compression.
There, some results are obtained for the relationship between environmental complexity and
sensor complexity; http://rsif.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/14/130/20170166 It may well
be the case that a combination of the work here with the utility theory approach there might be a
useful further direction, though it does not solve the origin of complexity problem.
Typo: "such that mode complex"
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172221)
15-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Seoane
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-172221 entitled
"Information theory, predictability, and the emergence of complex life" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
3
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172221
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
4
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 24-Jan-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
5
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Matjaz Perc (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an interesting paper, with an excellent framing in terms of basic questions in the theory of
evolution. There's clever framing, where bit guesses are predicting the environment and
rewarded for a correct guess by having descendants. This allows the authors to frame evolution
as an information theoretic "channel capacity" between generations.
In the end, the authors somewhat punt the problem of explaining why more complex life might
evolve: in particular, it's the complexity of the environment that drives organisms that can to seek
out these new, underpopulated niches. This raises the question: where does the environmental
complexity come from?
I think it worth mentioning this feature of the explanation; we still have a basic problem to solve,
and what the authors have shown is that given the existence of more complex environments,
more complex organisms can thrive. The "evolutionary driver that can push towards evermore
complex life forms" is, in the end, put in by hand in the definition of the environment. Perhaps
the authors can do a little work here to consider the possibility of complex organisms generating
more complex environments for each other to react to.
Finally, a relevant paper to consider is Marzen & DeDeo, the evolution of lossy compression.
There, some results are obtained for the relationship between environmental complexity and
sensor complexity; http://rsif.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/14/130/20170166 It may well
be the case that a combination of the work here with the utility theory approach there might be a
useful further direction, though it does not solve the origin of complexity problem.
Typo: "such that mode complex"
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172221)
See Appendix A.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172221.R1)
24-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Seoane,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Information theory, predictability, and
the emergence of complex life" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
r Referee:
nk you very much for your useful comments and for appreciating our work. We reply to them
etail below.
arding the question “where does the environmental complexity arise from”, this is indeed a
vant question. It was succinctly dealt with in the earlier manuscript, but we decided not to
borate too much about that to avoid more philosophical speculations.
The Referee suggests the possibility of organisms generating ever more complex
ironments. Such a possibility was explicitly pointed out as a future line of research (fifth
agraph of the Discussion section). It was framed within the idea of ‘niche construction’, and
do think that this tackles part of the problem of where the environmental complexity comes
m. Actually, further work based on the bit-guesser model or other approaches is already
erway to clarify this question – we wish to be able to publish something about that soon.
A second possibility not explicitly discussed in the earlier manuscript version is that which
s size and complexity. As illustrated by the simulations shown in figure 6, bit-guessers shall be
en the chance to wander into ever larger (i.e. more complex) environments if they were able
obtain enough rewards from simpler ones. Alternatively, instead of assuming that
ironments are finite, isolated tokens; we could assume an infinite environment (or large
ugh, e.g. a whole planet). Then, guessers could be given a choice to seclude themselves to
aller niches within the planet. The growing environmental complexity would then be clearly
ed to how far a guesser would dare exploring. The proposed model could be modified to
form simulations that replicate such situations, but we wanted to avoid excessive speculation
stick to the results within the proposed framework.
Notwithstanding, we agree with the Referee that the paper would benefit from a more
licit framing of the question of the origin of environmental complexity. We made it explicit
very briefly discussed the two possibilities mentioned here. Find the modified paragraphs 5
6 of the Discussion section.
apologize for the omission of the Marzen & DeDeo 2017 paper suggested by the Referee.
s is, indeed, a work that we discussed during several times during our research. It was cited in
lier versions of the paper. At some point we deleted the reference by mistake and lost track
t. It has been included again (first paragraph of section Evolution and Information Theory).
We also thought that it would be appropriate to mention briefly this paper in the Discussion
tion. For that end, we have included a last paragraph in which we also outline very shortly a
ent paper by Boyd, Mandal, and Crutchfield (Correlation-powered Information Engines and
Thermodynamics of Self-Correction, https://arxiv.org/pdf/1606.08506.pdf). This paper deals
h thermodynamic engines fueled by environmental correlations. We believe that biophysics
notably benefit from such an approach, specifically if replication and competition for
ources is added to the equation, as we do in our contribution.
ally, we have fixed the typo spotted by the Referee.
t regards:
F Seoane, on behalf of both authors.
Society Open
