Depth specialization in mesophotic corals (Leptoseris spp.)
and associated algal symbionts in Hawai‘i
X. Pochon, Z. H. Forsman, H. L. Spalding, J. L. Padilla-Gamiño, C. Smith, R. D. Gates
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140351.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140351
Review timeline
Original submission: 22 July 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 03 October 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 16 December 2014 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 7 January 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140191.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Danwei Huang)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript examines the molecular diversity and depth zonation of Leptoseris hosts and
symbionts at 31 sites in the 'Au'au channel oft Hawai'i. The authors identified five host species
based on a mtDNA intron, as well as zonation by depth among three mtDNA haplotypes but not
ITS2. They achieved this through good representative sampling, relatively comprehensive
analyses, and some effective visualisations of the results.
Overall, I found the paper to be well written and quite easy to follow. I appreciate the discussion
on the use of the ITS2 marker and associated methods, as well as limitations of previous studies
that tried to estimate the diversity of Symbiodinium. I found some issues, mostly minor, and
provide comments below. This paper should be a worthwhile contribution to the coral literature.
Line 73: Citation needed for depth range.
Line 99: 'distinct' instead of 'separate'?
Line 139: Were collection permit(s) necessary?
Line 149: Please provide voucher specimen information, including museum where they are
deposited and catalogue numbers. These can be Supplementary Material.
Lines 153–156: Is this CHAOS (Fukami et al. 2004, Evolution), or perhaps from Pochon et al.
(2001, Mar. Biol.)? Is there no citation for this fixation method?
Line 191: I'm extremely uncomfortable with manual alignments. They are arbitrary and generally
not repeatable, particularly for ITS.
Line 196: Since Luck et al. (2013, PeerJ) has already found Agaricia humilis to be nested within
the Leptoseris/Pavona clade, I don't think it's reasonable to use it as a 'root' or even an outgroup
here. I suggest using an acroporid as an outgroup (in addition to S. radians).
Line 205: It should be four chains, or four MCMCMC runs.
Line 206: I'm a little concerned about autocorrelations among samples with such a small sample
frequency (10). Some diagnostics here will be useful, or consider thinning the samples.
Line 257: The statement that the 'remaining clade was most closely related to L. papyracea' is not
quite true. It is after all a paraphyly, thus as related to clade VIII as L. papyracea (based on Fig.
S1). Stating that the sequences are most similar by distance to L. papyracea would be more
accurate.
Line 258: 'highly divergent' is unnecessarily vague. Is this divergence with respect to other
species, or within L. scabra, between depths?
Lines 274–276: How about 'with haplotypes COI-1 (n = 22 sequences) and COI-3 (n = 32) more
closely related to one another than COI-2 (n = 20)'?
3
Line 385: See comment on line 257.
Lines 386–387: An SEM image to at least preliminarily test this seems reasonable to have.
Line 388: A discussion of a recent paper by Wares (2014, PeerJ), which included whole mt
genome data, seems appropriate here.
Line 426: 'oxidase'
Line 444: 'as opposed to paralogous copies, or slowed concerted evolution of the ITS2 marker'?
Line 461: 'scleractinian corals'
Line 467: 'differed significantly'
Line 477: 'coadaptation'?
Line 478–479: I'm more comfortable with the description that the deeper mtDNA haplotypes
appear to be more closely related to each other than COI-2 that is restricted to shallower hosts.
The transitions between shallow and deep cannot be reliably traced on such a small clade, and
the outgroup states are also not clear.
Lines 510–511: I think this statement applies to Agariciidae more broadly, e.g. Kitahara (2012,
Invertebr. Syst.).
Table 1: I'm not convinced this table is necessary outside of the Supplementary Material, since
most of the information are already in Figs 2 and 3 (and in an integrated manner, Figs 4 and 5).
It's rather inconvenient for readers to have to refer to the table and figures at the same time while
reading the text. The authors could enrich Fig. 2, for instance, with the rest of the essential
information by using as tip names, e.g. 'L49, 65m, site 18'. For Fig. 3, the shapes could be enlarged
(since they don't portray sample size anyway) to accommodate the sample IDs.
Table 2: The authors didn't quite discuss the significant interaction terms. Host x depth is
explained through their explanation of host-symbiont specificity and depth partitioning, but not
so much the site differences and interaction.
Figure S1: (1) 'Clade II' is not a clade! (2) Technically speaking, a clade cannot be polyphyletic by
definition (e.g. III). It would be clearer to list all the species/genera in those clades. (3) Please
label L. incrustans.
Table S2: I think this should be a main table, perhaps integrated with Table 2, not just for the sake
of completeness, as it nicely summarises what was tested in the PERMANOVA for
Symbiodinium ITS2.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
4
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript by Pochon et al. presents an interesting dataset looking at host-symbiont
diversity in the genus Leptoseris, using difficult-to-obtain samples from lower mesophotic
habitats around Hawai’i. Although the study presents interesting results, I believe major
revisions are necessary before I would deem it suitable for publication.
In short, I feel that some of the conclusions (particularly with regards to “depth zonation”) are
not well supported by the data and that the aim of the study is not well formulated. In addition,
although I fully understand the difficulties of obtaining specimens from this depth zone, the
presented dataset is small and I think this should be more appropriately reflected in the length of
the manuscript and the interpretations.
One of the major conclusions is the “depth-related niche partitioning” of Leptoseris species
within the mesophotic zone. However, other than for L. hawaiiensis, I do not really see how that
is the case. Particularly when including the depths of specimens from Luck et al. (which I would
recommend to include), there does not seem to be much depth partitioning going on between L.
scabra, L. tubulifera, L. sp.1 and even L. papyracea. Instead, it may be better to focus on the
interesting case of L. hawaiiensis (and its specific symbiont), and more broadly focus on the
specific host-symbiont associations that are observed. One of the other conclusions is that “this
new investigation confirms that the cox1-1-rRNA intron is an affective high-resolution marker for
accurate species identification”. However, given that no taxonomic identification through
(micro-)morphological assessment was undertaken, I do not understand how this conclusion can
be drawn.
The manuscript can be substantially shortened and writing should be more to the point. Methods
and Results sections could be written more concisely and currently provide excessive detail. The
Discussion section currently contains a 3.5 page section (!) discussing the applicability of
mitochondrial markers, which has already been discussed by the authors for both the coral host
and the Symbiodinium in previous articles, and I believe can be “touched on” in a single
paragraph. Although the length of the Introduction is appropriate, I think the context/aim of the
study needs to be better set up in the first two paragraphs. Overall, I would suggest reformatting
to a “short note” format.
In terms of the context, there is a lot of mention of the “Deep Reef Refugia hypothesis” (including
in the Abstract, Introduction and an entire section in the Discussion). However, given that this
study from the outset is focusing on the lower mesophotic zone, I do not really understand the
relevance, as there is reasonable consensus that the “reproduction source” part of this hypothesis
is only relevant in terms of the upper mesophotic zone.
5
The limitations of such a small dataset need to be more clearly acknowledged in terms of
reporting, analyses and interpretations. Percentages should not be used to report such small
numbers (e.g. reporting “33.33%” for 2 out of 6 samples). Similarly, I wonder how informative
extensive discussion of SIMPER/MANOVA stats really is with such small sample sizes. Overall,
although the number of specimens (n = 74) is relatively high for a lower mesophotic study, the
numbers are very low in terms of inferring patterns of ecological host/symbiont zonation,
particularly given that these specimens represent at least 5 different taxonomic species, and
should therefore be interpreted with more caution.
Lastly, “L. scabra” is considered as a Leptoseris species in this manuscript, however in the paper
by Luck et al. (2013) it has been stated that this species is likely in need of generic reassignment.
This should be addressed.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140191)
28-Aug-2014
Dear Dr Pochon:
Manuscript ID RSOS-140191 entitled "Depth zonation and sympatric cryptic diversity in a
Hawaiian mesophotic coral (<i>Leptoseris</i> spp.) and associated algal symbionts" which you
submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments from reviewers are
included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However, a new manuscript may be submitted which takes into consideration these comments.
Please note that resubmitting your manuscript does not guarantee eventual acceptance, and that
your resubmission will be subject to peer review before a decision is made.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted within 6 months. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140191)
See Appendix A.
6
label_version_2
RSOS-140351.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The manuscript has seen a significant improvement from the previous version. Listed below
some remaining comments that should be addressed. Please pay particular attention to the last 2
paragraphs of the Discussion, as these still need a bit of work.
Title: not entirely happy yet with the phrasing of the title – but I will leave this up to the choice of
the authors. To some extent, using “Hawaiian” makes it sounds like you are talking about an
endemic species. Additionally, you are mentioning “a Hawaiian mesophotic coral” but then refer
to multiple species in brackets “(Leptoseris spp.)”, which is confusing.
Abstract P10, L49: First sentence is too vague – I would eliminate.
Abstract P10, L50-52: Give a reason why that is likely
Abstract P10, 52-57: Probably not correct to say “mesophotic coral genus” as Leptoseris can occur
in reasonable abundances in shaded spots on the shallow reef too. OK to refer to it as e.g. “a
dominant genus in the mesophotic”
Abstract P10, 52-57: given that only a single marker was used for the coral host, it is misleading to
state that “a suite of molecular markers” were used – rephrase.
Abstract P10, 55-57: “The coral data” – rephrase
Abstract P10, 55-57: “The coral data clearly resolved five Leptoseris species”: there is no mention
of how species were taxonomically identified. It sounds like any Leptoseris was haphazardly
collected and then genotyped, but there is no mention of how congruence between genetic data
and taxonomic species designations was reconfirmed.
Abstract P10, 60-62: Logic is not very clear in this last sentence: now it seems like you are saying
that the limited connectivity suggests that niche specialization plays a role in host-symbiont
evolution!?
Introduction P11, 70-71: change to “from ~0-150 m” or “from 0 to >150 m”
Introduction P11, 75-76: rephrase: “genetic structure by depth … lead to speciation”?
7
Introduction P11, 81-89: paragraph changes abruptly from symbiont niche specialization to a
general intro on MCEs – I think the former should probably merged with the third or first
paragraph, and that the general MCE intro can stand by itself.
Methods P13, 137: multiple gradients?
Results P18, 238-239: “first hundred metres of the gradient” – the actual sampled depth gradient
was a lot less than 100 m (no sampling <65 m), so better to rephrase…
Results P18, 240: I do not particularly like the use of “shallow” and “mid” for these depth ranges,
but not sure how they could otherwise be partitioned (other than just using the actual depths)
Results P19, 273: Remove the word “Remarkable”
Results P20, 299: Figure 5 and its mention are probably more appropriate in the Discussion as it is
interpretative?
Results P21, 309: Remove “statistically”
Discussion P22, 327: This study did not really investigate the depth distribution of these five
species – it was just inferred as a byproduct (on the basis of which samples were collected from
which depths )- proper assessment of depth distributions would require e.g. transects. I would
suggest to stick to the aim outlined at the end of the Introduction.
Discussion P22, 331: change to “upper mesophotic environments”
Discussion P24, 384-385: change to “the mitochondrial marker IS under …”
Discussion P25, 399: see previous comment about use of “shallow”, without mention of actual
depth range particularly confusing as “shallow” is used to address a lower mesophotic depth.
Discussion P25, 406: change to “30 to ~150 m”?
Discussion P25, 410: note that the lower limit of “coral reef development” (i.e. net reef accretion)
usually lies quite shallow (e.g. 40-50 m), so maybe not the best comparison.
Discussion P25, 410: Rephrase: “Coadaptation and coevolution … appear to be consistent with
both host and symbiont phylogenies”
Discussion P25, 413-414: “dominance in the lower mesophotic zone is more recently derived”: all
species were collected in the lower mesophotic zone (i.e. <60 m), so confusing statement
Discussion P25, 412-421: I would be very careful to make any statements about species being
more recently derived and links with range expansions into different depth zones, given that you
are only looking at a single marker and that the distribution data is anecdotal. I would advise to
take this entire paragraph out...
Discussion P26, 422 onwards: this last paragraph is still a bit weak. I would advise to stay a bit
more on topic and focus on the niche partitioning rather than the connectivity aspect which is not
really addressed in this study.
Discussion P26, 425: change to “(30-60 m)”
Discussion P26, 429-432: These three “implications” are interesting future research avenues at
best, but definitely not “implications” of the findings, so I would remove these.
Discussion P26, 438-445: I find these future research direction a bit random, and deserve a bit
more explanation if you do decide to keep them in.
Discussion P27, 445-447: A statement like that needs at least some sort of explanation?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140351)
18-Nov-2014
Dear Dr Pochon,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Depth specialization in a Hawaiian mesophotic coral
(Leptoseris spp.) and associated algal symbionts") has now received comments from reviewers.
We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
8
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 04-Dec-2014). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to each of the comments, and the adjustments you have
made. In order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as
possible in your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
9
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140351)
See Appendix B.
pendix A
manuscript underwent a major revision to incorporate the helpful suggestions of the reviewers. We thank
h reviewers for their time and comments, which we feel have significantly improved the overall quality of
manuscript. A point-by-point response to the reviewer comments is provided below:
viewer: 1
e manuscript by Pochon et al. presents an interesting dataset looking at host-symbiont diversity in
genus Leptoseris, using difficult-to-obtain samples from lower mesophotic habitats around
wai’i. Although the study presents interesting results, I believe major revisions are necessary before
ould deem it suitable for publication.
short, I feel that some of the conclusions (particularly with regards to “depth zonation”) are not well
ported by the data and that the aim of the study is not well formulated. In addition, although I fully
derstand the difficulties of obtaining specimens from this depth zone, the presented dataset is small
I think this should be more appropriately reflected in the length of the manuscript and the
erpretations.
acknowledged by the reviewer, obtaining samples from the lower mesophotic environment using manned
mersible is an extremely expensive and time-consuming endeavor. While we agree that 74 samples is not
ectacular number, it is important to note that this sample size is amongst the largest coral set ever
ected at these depths, and there is replication (n = 5) at each depth interval. However, we have
nificantly shortened the manuscript and fine-tuned the methodologies and interpretations to reflect this
ll sample size as suggested.
e of the major conclusions is the “depth-related niche partitioning” of Leptoseris species within the
sophotic zone. However, other than for L. hawaiiensis, I do not really see how that is the case.
ticularly when including the depths of specimens from Luck et al. (which I would recommend to
lude), there does not seem to be much depth partitioning going on between L. scabra, L. tubulifera,
p.1 and even L. papyracea. Instead, it may be better to focus on the interesting case of L.
waiiensis (and its specific symbiont), and more broadly focus on the specific host-symbiont
ociations that are observed.
scope of the manuscript was modified to focus on the central finding supported by the data. Changes
e made on the title, abstract, introduction, and discussion to focus the manuscript on depth specialization,
er than depth zonation as suggested.
have added the depth-ranges reported in Luck et al. for the five investigated Leptoseris species (Lines
-247), and have emphasized the discussion on host-symbiont associations and depth specialization of L.
aiiensis.
e of the other conclusions is that “this new investigation confirms that the cox1-1-rRNA intron is an
ective high-resolution marker for accurate species identification”. However, given that no taxonomic
ntification through (micro-)morphological assessment was undertaken, I do not understand how
conclusion can be drawn.
s a very good point, the sentence (Line 348) was changed to “Nevertheless, this new investigation
firms that the cox1-1-rRNA intron is an informative genetic marker for Leptoseris spp. and may
ter valuable comparative studies between mesophotic coral communities in Hawai‘i as well as in
her diversity regions such as the Indo-West Pacific.”
e manuscript can be substantially shortened and writing should be more to the point. Methods and
ults sections could be written more concisely and currently provide excessive detail. The Discussion
tion currently contains a 3.5 page section (!) discussing the applicability of mitochondrial markers,
ich has already been discussed by the authors for both the coral host and the Symbiodinium in
vious articles, and I believe can be “touched on” in a single paragraph. Although the length of the
roduction is appropriate, I think the context/aim of the study needs to be better set up in the first
paragraphs. Overall, I would suggest reformatting to a “short note” format.
agree with the reviewer that the original manuscript contained excessive details and we have shortened
/or reworded the Methods, Results, and Discussion sections to be more succinct. This has increased
ity while deleting ~700 words (or ~3 pages) out of the original manuscript.
erms of the context, there is a lot of mention of the “Deep Reef Refugia hypothesis” (including in
Abstract, Introduction and an entire section in the Discussion). However, given that this study from
outset is focusing on the lower mesophotic zone, I do not really understand the relevance, as there
easonable consensus that the “reproduction source” part of this hypothesis is only relevant in terms
he upper mesophotic zone.
reed, the scope of the manuscript was changed to focus on the main finding of evidence of adaptation and
cialization to the lower mesophotic zone by L. hawaiiensis and associated symbionts. We have shifted the
agraph mentioning the ‘deep refugia hypothesis’ further down in the Introduction (Line 94), in order to
er frame the context/aim within the first two paragraphs of the Introduction.
e limitations of such a small dataset need to be more clearly acknowledged in terms of reporting,
lyses and interpretations. Percentages should not be used to report such small numbers (e.g.
orting “33.33%” for 2 out of 6 samples). Similarly, I wonder how informative extensive discussion
IMPER/MANOVA stats really is with such small sample sizes. Overall, although the number of
cimens (n = 74) is relatively high for a lower mesophotic study, the numbers are very low in terms
nferring patterns of ecological host/symbiont zonation, particularly given that these specimens
resent at least 5 different taxonomic species, and should therefore be interpreted with more caution.
agree with the reviewer and have completely removed the SIMPER analysis from Methods and Results
tions. Also, percentages relating to such small numbers were removed.
tly, “L. scabra” is considered as a Leptoseris species in this manuscript, however in the paper by
ck et al. (2013) it has been stated that this species is likely in need of generic reassignment. This
uld be addressed.
following sentence was added in the results section (Line 235): L. scabra was the most divergent with
pect to other Lesptoseris species, and consistent with Luck et al.’s [50] finding that L. scabra was
yphyletic with Pavona and Agaricia, this species may require future generic reassignment.
Bongaerts
viewer: 2
s manuscript examines the molecular diversity and depth zonation of Leptoseris hosts and
bionts at 31 sites in the 'Au'au channel off Hawai'i. The authors identified five host species based
a mtDNA intron, as well as zonation by depth among three mtDNA haplotypes but not ITS2. They
ieved this through good representative sampling, relatively comprehensive analyses, and some
ctive visualisations of the results.
erall, I found the paper to be well written and quite easy to follow. I appreciate the discussion on the
of the ITS2 marker and associated methods, as well as limitations of previous studies that tried to
mate the diversity of Symbiodinium. I found some issues, mostly minor, and provide comments
ow. This paper should be a worthwhile contribution to the coral literature.
thank this reviewer for the positive assessment of our work. Following Reviewer’s #1 comments, we
e decided to entirely remove the discussion on the use of ITS2 and associated methods. This section
vided excessive details, which we feel would distract readers from the main message of this section (i.e,
of mitochondrial markers for resolving Leptoseris-Symbiodinium associations).
e 73: Citation needed for depth range.
ded citation to Kleypas et al. (1999) on Line 71.
e 99: 'distinct' instead of 'separate'?
rected (now on Line 91).
e 139: Were collection permit(s) necessary?
nk you. A statement about corals collection and permit number has been added to the Acknowledgment
tion.
e 149: Please provide voucher specimen information, including museum where they are deposited
catalogue numbers. These can be Supplementary Material.
ucher specimens are currently held in the laboratory of Ruth Gates and are undergoing further analysis.
specimens are available upon request. The sample IDs indicated in Table S1 will be used as reference for
re work by collaborators, and for museum depository.
es 153–156: Is this CHAOS (Fukami et al. 2004, Evolution), or perhaps from Pochon et al. (2001,
r. Biol.)? Is there no citation for this fixation method?
have now added the original citation for the Guanidinium extraction (Tkach and Pawlowski 1999) on
e 152.
e 191: I'm extremely uncomfortable with manual alignments. They are arbitrary and generally not
eatable, particularly for ITS.
completely agree. The alignments were only modified manually in cases where the exact same sequence
treated differently for different individual; clustal W was used for the initial alignment, which then
uired very minor manual changes. The text was modified accordingly (Line 180).
e 196: Since Luck et al. (2013, PeerJ) has already found Agaricia humilis to be nested within the
ptoseris/Pavona clade, I don't think it's reasonable to use it as a 'root' or even an outgroup here. I
gest using an acroporid as an outgroup (in addition to S. radians).
thank the reviewer for catching this mistake. The indication that A. humilis was used as an outgroup
ng with S. radians stemmed from an earlier analysis that was not included in the submitted manuscript. In
ity, we exclusively used S. radians as outgroup in the Leptoseris analyses (see Figure 2). We have
rected this in the Methods and in the Figures Legends.
ding Acropora as an additional outgroup is problematic at this time as none of the available sequences in
nBank cover the full Cox-1-1-rRNA fragment (see BLASTn Figures below). However, we have re-run a
phylogenetic analysis including the partial sequence of Acropora robusta (GenBank KF448538), and the
ult shows no major changes from the original Figure 2 (see phylogenetic tree below). Adding a partial
uence of Acropora (only 453 bp) is not scientifically sound and therefore we suggest keeping the original
lysis as is.
e 205: It should be four chains, or four MCMCMC runs.
reed. The Methods now indicate “…starting from a random tree of 4 chains with 2 runs of Metropolis-
pled Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMCMC).” (Line 193)
e 206: I'm a little concerned about autocorrelations among samples with such a small sample
quency (10). Some diagnostics here will be useful, or consider thinning the samples.
don’t think setting the sampling frequencies to 10 generations resulted in any major issues. All Bayesian
lyses yielded nice ‘burn-in’ curves, standard deviation of split frequencies were well below 0.01 after
,000 generations, and the Potential Scale Reduction Factor (PSRF) reached the value of 1 for all
ameters. However, the reviewer rightly points out that it is recommended to increase the sampling
uency with large dataset (although it is unclear to us if 74 samples are considered as a large dataset). In
er to remove any doubts, we have re-run the Bayesian analyses using sampling frequencies set to 100
erations as well as 500 generations (data not shown). The results did not show any noticeable changes in
topologies nor in the posterior probabilities at nodes, and therefore we have decided to retain our original
ameters as is.
e 257: The statement that the 'remaining clade was most closely related to L. papyracea' is not
te true. It is after all a paraphyly, thus as related to clade VIII as L. papyracea (based on Fig. S1).
ting that the sequences are most similar by distance to L. papyracea would be more accurate.
rected (Line 234).
e 258: 'highly divergent' is unnecessarily vague. Is this divergence with respect to other species, or
hin L. scabra, between depths?
rected, divergent with respect to other species was what was intended (Lines 234-237).
es 274–276: How about 'with haplotypes COI-1 (n = 22 sequences) and COI-3 (n = 32) more closely
ated to one another than COI-2 (n = 20)'?
rected (Line 255).
e 385: See comment on line 257.
rected (Line 345).
es 386–387: An SEM image to at least preliminarily test this seems reasonable to have.
r collaborators will follow up on this observation and work is currently underway to publish taxonomic
ings with these and other samples in a separate publication. The focus of the present study is more on the
covery of depth specialization, and taxonomic findings are at this point very preliminary.
e 388: A discussion of a recent paper by Wares (2014, PeerJ), which included whole mt genome
a, seems appropriate here.
Wares (2014 PeerJ) paper focused on Cytochrome B sequence data, finding that this marker is not an
rovement over COI. The cox1-1-rRNA intron on the other hand is highly polymorphic and informative
unfortunately is unique to the Agariciid family.
e 426: 'oxidase'
rected (Line 366).
e 444: 'as opposed to paralogous copies, or slowed concerted evolution of the ITS2 marker'?
rected (Line 384).
e 461: 'scleractinian corals'
ed (Line 397).
e 467: 'differed significantly'
dified (Line 401).
e 477: 'coadaptation'?
ed (Line 412).
e 478–479: I'm more comfortable with the description that the deeper mtDNA haplotypes appear to
more closely related to each other than COI-2 that is restricted to shallower hosts. The transitions
ween shallow and deep cannot be reliably traced on such a small clade, and the outgroup states are
o not clear.
s was restated as a hypothesis that needs further testing (Lines 416-421).
es 510–511: I think this statement applies to Agariciidae more broadly, e.g. Kitahara (2012,
ertebr. Syst.).
dified to include all mesophotic corals (Line 446).
ble 1: I'm not convinced this table is necessary outside of the Supplementary Material, since most of
information are already in Figs 2 and 3 (and in an integrated manner, Figs 4 and 5). It's rather
onvenient for readers to have to refer to the table and figures at the same time while reading the
t. The authors could enrich Fig. 2, for instance, with the rest of the essential information by using as
names, e.g. 'L49, 65m, site 18'. For Fig. 3, the shapes could be enlarged (since they don't portray
ple size anyway) to accommodate the sample IDs.
ellent suggestions! We have removed Table 1 and incorporated the samples information directly into
s. 2 and 3.
le 2: The authors didn't quite discuss the significant interaction terms. Host x depth is explained through
r explanation of host-symbiont specificity and depth partitioning, but not so much the site differences and
raction.
s was intentional as the number of samples collected across the 31 sites ranged between 1 and 6 samples
site. The significant (Host x Site) result is likely influenced by some host species being represented more
n at some sites (eg., L. hawaiiensis at sites 14 and 30). We have modified the paragraph (Lines 416-421)
ddress this: “The distribution of symbionts across depths and host lineages (Figure 4), is consistent with
he partitioning and expansion of the host range into sub-optimal low light habitat. Similarly, the
nificant Host x Site interaction uncovered in this study (Table 1) suggests potential geographic or habitat
erns in the ecological distribution of mesophotic Leptoseris. However, further work incorporating larger
ple sets from each investigated site is required to further test these hypotheses”.
ure S1: (1) 'Clade II' is not a clade! (2) Technically speaking, a clade cannot be polyphyletic by definition
. III). It would be clearer to list all the species/genera in those clades. (3) Please label L. incrustans.
ellent point; Because this Supplementary Figure is meant to show the position of our new sequences
pared with the 8 clades previously reported in Luck et al., for clarity we have kept the naming of all 8
des (even if these ‘clades’ have been shown to be polyphyletic). Specifically, we have (1) restricted ‘clade
o Luck et al. sequences (KF437776 and KF437781) and have named our sequence as ‘L. papyracea ?’;
we have kept the terms ‘polyphyletic’ for clades III and VIII, but have added the species names next to
corresponding sequences; and (3) we have added ‘L. incrustans’. We have clarified this in the figure
end.
le S2: I think this should be a main table, perhaps integrated with Table 2, not just for the sake of
pleteness, as it nicely summarises what was tested in the PERMANOVA for Symbiodinium ITS2.
ne! See the new Table 1.
nwei Huang
Comments to Author:
Editorial comments:
1. We understand that you are still working on the voucher specimens however please
state in your manuscript which collection in which institution the voucher will be
donated and when this will be done.
The following sentence has been added in the manuscript (Methods, Line 179):
“Voucher Specimens will be archived at the Bernice Pauley Bishop Museum
(Honolulu, Hawai‘i) in January 2015.”
2. Thank you for responding to the reviewer's concern about autocorrolation (Line
206: I'm a little concerned about autocorrelations among samples with such a small
sample frequency (10). Some diagnostics here will be useful, or consider thinning the
samples.). Please provide this clarification in the main text of your revised
manuscript.
This has been clarified in the revised manuscript. The following sentences were added
in the Result section (Line 261): “All Bayesian analyses yielded similar ‘burn-in’
curves. Standard deviation of split frequencies were well below 0.01 after ca. 15,000
generations, and the Potential Scale Reduction Factor (PSRF) reached the value of 1
for all parameters.”
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
The manuscript has seen a significant improvement from the previous version. Listed
below some remaining comments that should be addressed. Please pay particular
attention to the last 2 paragraphs of the Discussion, as these still need a bit of work.
We thank Dr. Bongaerts for his additional comments, which have improved the
manuscript. We have addressed them all and provided a point-by-point response
below.
Title: not entirely happy yet with the phrasing of the title – but I will leave this up to
the choice of the authors. To some extent, using “Hawaiian” makes it sounds like you
are talking about an endemic species. Additionally, you are mentioning “a Hawaiian
mesophotic coral” but then refer to multiple species in brackets “(Leptoseris spp.)”,
which is confusing.
The title was modified to: “Depth specialization in mesophotic corals
(Leptoseris spp.) and associated algal symbionts in Hawai‘I”
Abstract P10, L49: First sentence is too vague – I would eliminate.
The first sentence of Abstract was deleted.
Abstract P10, L50-52: Give a reason why that is likely
The sentence was modified to: “Corals at the lower limits of mesophotic habitats
are likely to have unique photosynthetic adaptations that allow them to persist
and dominate in these extreme low light ecosystems.”
Abstract P10, 52-57: Probably not correct to say “mesophotic coral genus” as
Leptoseris can occur in reasonable abundances in shaded spots on the shallow reef
too. OK to refer to it as e.g. “a dominant genus in the mesophotic”
This sentence now reads: “We examined the host-symbiont relationships from the
dominant coral genus Leptoseris in mesophotic environments from Hawai‘i collected
by submersibles across a depth gradient of 65 -125 m.”
Abstract P10, 52-57: given that only a single marker was used for the coral host, it is
misleading to state that “a suite of molecular markers” were used – rephrase.
This sentence now reads: “Coral and Symbiodinium genotypes were compared with
three distinct molecular markers including coral (COX1-1-rRNA intron) and
Symbiodinium (COI) mitochondrial markers and nuclear ITS2.”
Abstract P10, 55-57: “The coral data” – rephrase
Abstract P10, 55-57: “The coral data clearly resolved five Leptoseris species”: there
is no mention of how species were taxonomically identified. It sounds like any
Leptoseris was haphazardly collected and then genotyped, but there is no mention of
how congruence between genetic data and taxonomic species designations was
reconfirmed.
Sentence changed to: “The phylogenetic reconstruction clearly resolved five
Leptoseris species, including one species (L. hawaiiensis) exclusively found in deeper
habitats (115 -125 m).”
Abstract P10, 60-62: Logic is not very clear in this last sentence: now it seems like
you are saying that the limited connectivity suggests that niche specialization plays a
role in host-symbiont evolution!?
We have modified this sentence slightly to read: “These patterns of host-symbiont
depth specialization indicate that there are limits to connectivity between upper and
lower mesophotic zones, suggesting that niche specialization plays a critical role in
host-symbiont evolution at mesophotic extremes.”
Introduction P11, 70-71: change to “from ~0-150 m” or “from 0 to >150 m”
Sentence now reads: “In the tropics, photosynthetic corals are found at depths that
range from ca. 0 - 150 m in clear waters [1].”
Introduction P11, 75-76: rephrase: “genetic structure by depth … lead to speciation”?
We have improved this paragraph as follows: “Disruptive selection along depth
gradients has been proposed to lead to genetic divergence and possibly speciation
despite the lack of obvious spatial barriers to gene flow [4-6].
Introduction P11, 81-89: paragraph changes abruptly from symbiont niche
specialization to a general intro on MCEs – I think the former should probably
merged with the third or first paragraph, and that the general MCE intro can stand by
itself.
We have merged it with the first paragraph, and the general MCE intro now stands by
itself.
Methods P13, 137: multiple gradients?
“Multiple” was added.
Results P18, 238-239: “first hundred metres of the gradient” – the actual sampled
depth gradient was a lot less than 100 m (no sampling <65 m), so better to rephrase…
Corrected (Line 273).
Results P18, 240: I do not particularly like the use of “shallow” and “mid” for these
depth ranges, but not sure how they could otherwise be partitioned (other than just
using the actual depths)
We have now replaced the term “shallow” with “upper mesophotic” when referring to
corals collected at >60 m water depth. For example, this sentence now reads: “L.
scabra (clade VII) was exclusively represented by samples collected at upper and mid
mesophotic ranges, with approximately the same number of samples collected from
65 - 75 m (n = 8) and from 85 - 100 m (n = 6) depth ranges, respectively (Figure 2).”
We have also added a sentence early in the Methods defining the three mesophotic
depth ranges as “upper, mid, and lower” (Line 170) and have modified Figure 2
accordingly.
Results P19, 273: Remove the word “Remarkable”
Removed.
Results P20, 299: Figure 5 and its mention are probably more appropriate in the
Discussion as it is interpretative?
Great suggestion. We have moved this paragraph into the Discussion section (Line
472).
Results P21, 309: Remove “statistically”
Removed.
Discussion P22, 327: This study did not really investigate the depth distribution of
these five species – it was just inferred as a byproduct (on the basis of which samples
were collected from which depths )- proper assessment of depth distributions would
require e.g. transects. I would suggest to stick to the aim outlined at the end of the
Introduction.
Agreed.
Discussion P22, 331: change to “upper mesophotic environments”
Changed.
Discussion P24, 384-385: change to “the mitochondrial marker IS under …”
Corrected.
Discussion P25, 399: see previous comment about use of “shallow”, without mention
of actual depth range particularly confusing as “shallow” is used to address a lower
mesophotic depth.
This sentence now reads: “Similar to [51], both Leptoseris sp. 1 (clade Ia) and L.
tubulifera (clades Ia’) were distributed from upper (>65 m) to mid (<100 m)
mesophotic ranges, L. papyracea was confined to mid range, and L. hawaiiensis was
restricted to lower (>100 m) environments.”
Discussion P25, 406: change to “30 to ~150 m”?
Changed.
Discussion P25, 410: note that the lower limit of “coral reef development” (i.e. net
reef accretion) usually lies quite shallow (e.g. 40-50 m), so maybe not the best
comparison.
We have modify the sentence to read: “These light values fall well below the minimal
light levels (>50 µE m-2 s-1) that are thought to define the lower limits (usually ca. 40
– 50 m depth) of coral reef development [1], yet these corals persist and dominate at
these extremes most likely due to specialized adaptations from both the host and
symbiont [85].”
Discussion P25, 410: Rephrase: “Coadaptation and coevolution … appear to be
consistent with both host and symbiont phylogenies”
Revised.
Discussion P25, 413-414: “dominance in the lower mesophotic zone is more recently
derived”: all species were collected in the lower mesophotic zone (i.e. >60 m), so
confusing statement
Rephrased. Sentence now reads: “Coadaptation and coevolution appear to be
consistent with both host and symbiont phylogenies, and dominance in the deepest
mesophotic zone is more recently derived in both phylogenetic trees.”
Discussion P25, 412-421: I would be very careful to make any statements about
species being more recently derived and links with range expansions into different
depth zones, given that you are only looking at a single marker and that the
distribution data is anecdotal. I would advise to take this entire paragraph out...
We emphasized that “this hypothesis remains to be rigorously tested.” And that
“However, further work and additional sampling is required to test these hypotheses.”
Discussion P26, 422 onwards: this last paragraph is still a bit weak. I would advise to
stay a bit more on topic and focus on the niche partitioning rather than the
connectivity aspect which is not really addressed in this study.
Although connectivity was not directly addressed by this study, the finding of strong
genetic structure in the form of reciprocal monophyly indicates a complete lack of
genetic connectivity, therefore we feel obligated to raise possibilities and recommend
directions for future work.
Discussion P26, 425: change to “(30-60 m)”
Changed.
Discussion P26, 429-432: These three “implications” are interesting future research
avenues at best, but definitely not “implications” of the findings, so I would remove
these.
Agreed. These have been removed.
Discussion P26, 438-445: I find these future research direction a bit random, and
deserve a bit more explanation if you do decide to keep them in.
This section was revised to clarify (Line 524).
Discussion P27, 445-447: A statement like that needs at least some sort of
explanation?
The last sentence was rephrased to “Despite the technical challenges associated with
extreme depths, mesophotic corals are likely to hold important clues to understanding
niche specialization and adaptation.”
Society Open
