Coordination nano-space as stage of hydrogen ortho--para
conversion
Takashi Kosone, Akihiro Hori, Eiji Nishibori, Yoshiki Kubota, Akio Mishima, Masaaki Ohba,
Hiroshi Tanaka, Kenichi Kato, Jungeun Kim, José Antonio Real, Susumu Kitagawa and
Masaki Takata
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150006.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150006
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 January 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 8 May 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 30 June 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 30 June 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150006.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Ernest Ilisca)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
1. Interesting combination of adsorption isotherms, Raman Spectroscopy and SR-PXRD.
Excellent measures and valuable information on hydrogen in porous polymers.
2. Insufficiently related to similar conversion studies. Abstract and conclusion should be re-
written. Introduction, main text and references need revisions. (see details below (Appendix A))
3. Presentation awkward: Facts should appear first, then the deductions, then eventually
the speculations for future investigations.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Salvatore Mamone)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
SI are adequate and clear.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments (Appendix B))
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached comment file.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150006)
01-Apr-2015
Dear Professor Nishibori,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Coordination Nano-Space as Stage of Hydrogen
Ortho-Para Conversion") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to
revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 24-Apr-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
3
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
4
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150006)
See Appendix C.
label_version_2
RSOS-150006.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Ernest Ilisca)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Please correct Reference 7 published in 1986 and not 1982.
5
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150006.R1)
24-Jun-2015
Dear Professor Nishibori:
Manuscript ID RSOS-150006.R1 entitled "Coordination Nano-Space as Stage of Hydrogen Ortho-
Para Conversion" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The
comments of the reviewer(s) are included at the bottom of this letter.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 17-Jul-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Data accessibility
Thank you for providing some additional information in your supplementary files. However it is
a condition of publication that all supporting raw data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository so that your results
are fully reproducible. The data accessibility section should state where the article's supporting
data can be accessed. This section should also include details, where possible of where to access
other relevant research materials such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed.
If the data has been deposited in an external repository this section should list the database,
accession number and link to the DOI for all data from the article that has been made publicly
available. Data sets that have been deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should
also be appropriately cited in the manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
6
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150006.R1)
See Appendix D.
Appendix A
R.S. Open Science Report on « Coordination… » by T. Kosone et al.
Ernest Ilisca, University of Paris Denis Diderot
Overview
1. Interesting combination of adsorption isotherms, Raman Spectroscopy and
SR-PXRD. Excellent measures and valuable information on hydrogen in
porous polymers.
2. Insufficiently related to similar conversion studies. Abstract and conclusion
should be re-written. Introduction, main text and references need revisions.
(see details below)
3. Presentation awkward: Facts should appear first, then the deductions, then
eventually the speculations for future investigations.
4. Identification of the sites is meaningful. Short discussion about the different
fillings with temperature would be appreciable in the text and summarized
in the conclusion. Some comment about site III (not located in a potential
minimum because of molecular repulsion) would be appreciated.
5. Lack of information on the initial o/p ratio and possible conversion times.
The only information I found was in the supplement: « Hydrogen was loaded
into the capillary at 10 K”, but if so it might have been 100% para? Duration
of 12 minutes is given for each exposure: does-it include the time to cool or
heat the sample? Where is the hydrogen stored before cooling ?
Can an upper limit of the conversion time be proposed?
6. Raman lines identification given in relation with the site occupation is
possible but not as certain as stated. Different effects might interfere, as e.g.
the lines B or D might shift and broad with temperature, the J=2 and J=3
energy levels might be splitted by the anisotropic potential… A few additional
lines are not mentioned…
Abstract
P1 L40-6 “to respond to an electric field gradient”, “provide a scenario of the
mechanism: the electric field…” is not demonstrated!
“consistent with a theoretical prediction of electric field-induced
nuclear spin flips..”: yes but can lead to a variety of mechanisms.
“Suggest… a new stage of o-p conversion and lead to a new catalytic
system” was already observed since 1992 (Ref a… see below).
would prefer: The present results corroborate similar findings observed on
different systems and confirm that o-p conversion can occur on non-magnetic
olids and that electric processes can induce such hydrogen catalysis.
ntroduction
P1 L55-58 “Detected as a spin state and rotational energy level”.
Wrong formulation: conversion is a dynamical process (exchange of
energy). It is not a state, neither an energy level: it involves
transitions.
“...has never been visualized experimentally” not correct, see for
example Ref b, f, g … below.
Hydrogen Sites
P2 L52 “other minima were found…” Are Site II (and III) potential minima
and if not comment why H2 sits there.
P2 L54-56 “aspherical shape of the charge density indicates orientational
disorder “, and “central peak extended to diagonal”…
Contradictory with: “electrostatic potential around the Site I was
almost spherical,” stated P3 L44
Would the eventual asymmetry induce a rotational level splitting?
P3 L 3-6 “strong repulsion between H2 molecules”
P3 L19 “H2 molecules should give and receive strong intermolecular
repulsion”
Is the repulsion really so strong? Short inter-sites distances have been
found in MOF, (see ref b,c.. below) and hard sphere close-packed
models lead to similar distances!
P3 L20 “the fact”: what fact?
P3 L23-4 “We have successfully confined.. SR-PXRD” should be located in the
introduction.
“Showed changes of a rotational quantum number” should be
located and discussed in the conclusion?
Raman Spectra
P3 L33 “quanta should slightly shift owing to an anisotropic electrostatic
potential”
If anisotropic ppotential, there is a possibility of the rotational J=1
and 2 level splittings ?
In Fig. 3 and S5, the Raman Spectrum display other peaks that are
never mentioned! Why? In addition to the para peaks at 330 and 335
cm-1, I locate 7 other ortho peaks at about: 420, 470, 485, 545, 590,
610 and 660 cm-1 that might correspond to different ortho transitions.
P3 L35 “The peaks A, B, C decreased with cooling..”
Misprint ? B increases (not a decrease).
P3 L36 “which indicates that ortho converted to para” is uncertain at that
stage. It should be discussed later on, in the conclusion.
P3 L44 “The spherical potential .. can reduce the excitation energies of pH2
because the spherical potential can accelerate spherical rotation.. ..
and increase the excitation energies of oH2 ..”
Never met such an interpretation. Please explain or give a reference!
The shifts might arise from the splittings.
P3 L48 “The o/p ratio = 1,5 at the site I, which is close to that of normal
Hydrogen “
It remains quite different from the nH2 one for which o/p = 3.
P3 L54 “Thus, all of the H2 at the site II and III are para. We concluded that
conversion occurs at the site II and III”
Was H2 of ortho concentration before?
Site II is empty at 35K, does that mean that some conversion
occurred at 65K?
The molecular motion is nowhere mentioned in the paper. But it has
been shown that H2 moves fast and incoherently inside micro-cages.
See e.g. S. K. Estreicher et al, J. Phys. Condens. Matter 13, 6271 (2001).
As concerns the superposition between the peaks D and B, they may
refer to different sites, as stated differently occupied in function of
temperature. But, different interpretations are possible such as
broadening and shifts induced by interaction with the framework
phonons (see ref. e below, in particular figures 6 and 8 of e)
Conclusion
P4 L2-10 “We found that … present system”
Instead of an awkward repetition of the suggested SOPY electron
path (not clearly related to the present experimental study) better
refer to 24 and to the theoretical studies h and I (below) where such
a path is described and compared to other ones.
Better introduce instead a discussion on your results, remaining
questions… on the possible conversion through different paths and
eventually on the different mechanisms that might have occurred.
For example: - electron transfers (real or virtual) are well known to be
favored by electric fields - Intermolecular conversion between
adjacent molecules as observed by B.S. Burkholder: Catalysis of conversion
between the spin isomers of H2 by MOF-74, PhD, Oberlin College, 2009.
http://new.oberlin.edu/departments/physics/documents/projects/honors/Thesi
s_Burkholder.pdfhttp://www.scipublish.com/journals .
A few references are not directly related to that study: Ref 2, 3, 8, 10..
Some other References should instead be added:
First IR measure of conversion on insulator:
a) H.G Hixson, M.J. Wojcik, M.S. Devlin, J.P. Devlin and V. Buch, J. Chem. Phys.
97, 753-67(1992)
Structural study of multiple adsorption sites and related IR conversion measures
b) Y. Liu, H. Kabbour, C. M. Brown, D. A. Neumann and C.C. Ahn, Langmuir,
24(9), 4772-4777(2008)
c) S.A. FitzGerald et al., Phys. Rev. B 81, 104305 (2010)
Raman and related IR conversion measures in Semi Conductor cages
d) C. Peng, M. Stavola, W.B. Fowler and M. Lockwood, Phys. Rev. B80, 125207
(2009)
e) S.G. Koch, E.V. Lavrov and J. Weber, Phys. Rev. B90, 205212 (2014)
STM and conversion
f) S. Li, et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 146102 (2013)
g) F. D. Natterer, F. Patthey and H. Brune, Phys. Rev. Lett. 111, 175303 (2013).
Theoretical studies of electric mechanisms
h) E. Ilisca, Eur. Phys. Lett. 104, 18001(2013)
i) E. Ilisca and F. Ghiglieno, Eur. Phys.J. B 87, 235 (2014)
Appendix B
Comments for the editor/authors:
The article “Coordination nano-space as stage of hydrogen ortho-para
conversion” by T. Kosone et al. reports interesting observations about the spin
conversion of molecular hydrogen confined into the PCP complex
{Fe(pz)[Pd(CN)4]} .
The paper is scientifically and methodologically sound. However some minor
points deserve a more refined discussion, see below. The bibliography is
appropriate. Supplementary information provide a more extensive description
about the experimental methods and the synthesis of the material.
Unfortunately the language is not always polished. Sentences are sometimes
too convoluted, so impairing the readability of the paper, see below.
I advise publication after the following points are addressed.
<U+F0B7> Page 1, line 39-41. The sentence
“We found an interconversion of nuclear-spin isomers for hydrogen
molecule H2 adsorbed in a Hofmann-type PCP, {Fe(pz)[Pd(CN)4]} (pz =
pyrazine), to respond an electric field gradient owing to the deep
electrostatic potential of nanospace for the PCP by the temperature
dependence of Raman spectrum.”
is barely understandable. It becomes clearer after reading the paper.
Can the authors to rewrite it so to go more straight to the point?
<U+F0B7> Page 1, line 56-57. What is the meaning of the following sentence
“The conversion has been normally detected as a spin state and
rotational energy level by spectroscopy.” ?
<U+F0B7> Page 2, line 28-30. The sentence does not make sense at all. Please
describe the method better.
<U+F0B7> In material and methods: why the description of the adsorption
method/instrument is scattered in the end of the synthesis section and
in the Raman section?
<U+F0B7> Pag 2, line 44. From figure 1b and 1c it is very difficult to establish that
there is a shift in the adsorbed state at 77 K and 27 K. Figure S1
seems more poignant to show peak shift and negative thermal
expansion. Does the peak in the desorbed state correspond to free
H2?
<U+F0B7> Page 3, line 16: why the site III is weighted with a factor of 4 and the
remaining sites I and I are weighted with a factor of 1 and not 3?
<U+F0B7> Page 3, line 24-25: What is the sense of the sentence “Raman spectra
in H2 adsorbed state showed changes of a rotational quantum number
for H2 by lowering temperature”.?
<U+F0B7> Pag 3, line 43-46. The explanation of the shifts in the Raman lines of
absorbed hydrogen is flimsy. For confined molecules the shifts are
subtly related to the guest-host interaction and shifts should be
described in terms of interactions. A spherical potential cannot
influence the rotational motion of rotational states.
<U+F0B7> Pag. 4, line 6-10. To obtain conversion, states do not need to be
physically converted in chain but rather connected by non-zero matrix
elements as seems to be implied by the authors.
<U+F0B7> Pag.3, line 33 and below. It seems that peak D is just peak B just
shifted with temperature as per figure S4. Why the authors think B and
D are two different peaks? Can a single peak with a temperature
dependent shift explain the observations and simplify the discussion?
<U+F0B7> Page 3, line 53 and below. The authors claim that site II and III
selectively trap para-hydrogen. This is a strong statement and it should
be supported by more stringent evidence. Is it possible that ortho
peaks for site II and III have been missed in the noise? This statement
leads to a logical inconsistency with the conclusion. The authors
conclude conversion happens at site II and III and exchange between
site I and III will induce complete ortho to para conversion. The
opposite should be true as well. At high temperature the para to ortho
conversion should happen at site II and III. Since there is just one site I
per unit cell, ortho-H2 should start filling site II and III when the o/p ratio
gets bigger than 1 around 77K. Can the authors clarify this point?
<U+F0B7> Pag 4, line 13. A mechanism cannot be the best possible. It can rather
be the most plausible to explain the observed data.
<U+F0B7> For the benefit of the reader, can the authors give a better description
of the absorption/desorption procedure used in the supplementary
information? Was pressure set to zero to achieve desorption at fixed
temperature?
Appendix C
May 8, 2015
Manuscript ID: RSOS-150006
Title: "Coordination Nano-Space as Stage of Hydrogen Ortho-Para Conversion"
Author(s): Takashi Kosone, Akihiro Hori, Eiji Nishibori*, Yoshiki Kubota, Akio Mishima,
Masaaki Ohba, Hiroshi Tanaka, Kenichi Kato, Jungeun Kim, José Antonio Real, Susumu Kitagawa,
Masaki Takata*
Dear Editor,
First, we would like to thank the present editor and the reviewers for helpful suggestions in
revising the manuscript. We have revised the manuscript after carefully considering the suggestions
made by the two referees. Details for reply to referees and changes we have made are as follows:
Reply to Reviewer 1
First, we would like to thank the present reviewers for helpful suggestions in revising the
manuscript. We carefully revised the manuscript. Detail replies and changes we have made in the
manuscript are as follows:
Page 1, line 39-41. The sentence “We found an interconversion of nuclear-spin isomers for
hydrogen molecule H2 adsorbed in a Hofmann-type PCP, {Fe(pz)[Pd(CN)4]} (pz =pyrazine),
to respond an electric field gradient owing to the deep electrostatic potential of nanospace
for the PCP by the temperature dependence of Raman spectrum.” is barely understandable.
It becomes clearer after reading the paper. Can the authors to rewrite it so to go more
straight to the point?
We changed the sentence to “We found an interconversion of nuclear-spin isomers for hydrogen
molecule H2 adsorbed in a Hofmann-type PCP, {Fe(pz)[Pd(CN)4]} (pz = pyrazine), by the
temperature dependence of Raman spectra.” as suggested by the reviewer.
Page 1, line 56-57. What is the meaning of the following sentence “The conversion has
been normally detected as a spin state and rotational energy level by spectroscopy.” ?
We removed the sentence, “The conversion has been normally detected as a spin state and rotational
energy level by spectroscopy”. Since both reviewers pointed out this point.
Page 2, line 28-30. The sentence does not make sense at all. Please describe the method
better.
We changed the sentences to “In-situ microscopic Raman spectroscopy of H2 gas adsorption was
carried out by iHR320 spectrometer (HORIBA Jobin Yvon Ltd.) in the temperature range of 20 to
77 K under the temperature control condition in the precision, ~ mK by directly coupling this
Raman system to a cryostat. The sorption isotherm measurements for H2 gas and the H2 gas
induction in Raman measurements were carried out using an automatic volumetric adsorption
apparatus (BELSORP-max; MicrotracBEL) connected to the cryostat. A Cu cell for holding a
sample attached to a H2 induction probe of BELSORP-max was mounted on the cold head of the
cryostat. Raman excitation source which can be generated by a 532-nm diode pumped solid state
laser injects vertically down to two optical quartz windows. One was the top of the cryostat and the
other was the top of the cell. A known weight (ca. 30 mg) of the dried sample was placed into the
cell. Then, prior to all measurements, the sample was evacuated again using the degas function of
the analyzer for 12 hours at 393 K. In these in-situ Raman measurements, the laser power was at
most 40 µW prior to the injection of optical windows. The exposure time and the accumulation
number were 120 seconds and 6 times, respectively.” as suggested by the reviewer.
In material and methods: why the description of the adsorption method/instrument is
scattered in the end of the synthesis section and in the Raman section?
We removed the description of adsorption method in the synthesis and Rama sections. We also
added section “3.2 Measurement of hydrogen gas adsorption isotherms” as suggested by the
reviewers.
Page 2, line 44. From figure 1b and 1c it is very difficult to establish that there is a shift in
the adsorbed state at 77 K and 27 K. Figure S1 seems more poignant to show peak shift
and negative thermal expansion. Does the peak in the desorbed state correspond to free
H2?
We revised Figure 1b, 1c and S1 as suggested by the reviewer. Four figures in the previous S1 were
used in the revised Figure 1b and 1c.
Page 3, line 16: why the site III is weighted with a factor of 4 and the remaining sites I and I
are weighted with a factor of 1 and not 3?
We added the sentence “In addition, the site-II cannot coexist with the site-III of an adjoining
occupied pore because of the too short H2···H2 distance (2.43 Å).” We changed “In the rest of pores,
H2 occupied the site-I and -II which is the same as that at 65 K.” to “In the rest of pores, H2 mainly
occupied the site-I.”
The space group of the present material is P4/mmm which is tetragonal. The Wyckoff position of
site III is 4j. The multiplicity is 4. The Wyckoff position of site I is 1a. The multiplicity is 1.
Page 3, line 24-25: What is the sense of the sentence “Raman spectra in H2 adsorbed
state showed changes of a rotational quantum number for H2 by lowering temperature”.?
We changed “Raman spectra showed changes of a rotational quantum number for H2 by lowering
temperature as shown in figure 3e. “ to “Temperature dependence of Raman spectra in the H2
adsorbed state are shown in Figure 3e.” as suggested by the reviewers.
Page 3, line 43-46. The explanation of the shifts in the Raman lines of absorbed hydrogen
is flimsy. For confined molecules the shifts are subtly related to the guest-host interaction
and shifts should be described in terms of interactions. A spherical potential cannot
influence the rotational motion of rotational states.
We removed “The spherical potential at the center of diatomic H2 molecule can reduce the
excitation energies of p-H2 (J = 0 to 2) because the spherical potential can accelerate spherical
rotation. The potential should increase the excitation energies of o-H2 (J = 1 to 3). This is consistent
with a blue-shift of peak C.”
We added “The site-I is only one minima in the pore. There can be the highest interaction between
the adsorbed H2 and the host framework at site-I.”
Page. 4, line 6-10. To obtain conversion, states do not need to be physically converted in
chain but rather connected by non-zero matrix elements as seems to be implied by the
authors.
These parts were fully revised. The replies were listed in the reply of Page 4, line 13.
Page.3, line 33 and below. It seems that peak D is just peak B just shifted with temperature
as per figure S4. Why the authors think B and D are two different peaks? Can a single peak
with a temperature dependent shift explain the observations and simplify the discussion?
We re-assigned that peak D is peak B as suggested by the reviewers. The related figures and
sentences were revised.
Page 3, line 53 and below. The authors claim that site II and III selectively trap
para-hydrogen. This is a strong statement and it should be supported by more stringent
evidence. Is it possible that ortho peaks for site II and III have been missed in the noise?
This statement leads to a logical inconsistency with the conclusion. The authors conclude
conversion happens at site II and III and exchange between site I and III will induce
complete ortho to para conversion. The opposite should be true as well. At high
temperature the para to ortho conversion should happen at site II and III. Since there is just
one site I per unit cell, ortho-H2 should start filling site II and III when the o/p ratio gets
bigger than 1 around 77K. Can the authors clarify this point?
We added and revised the following sentences as suggested by the reviewer: The Raman
peaks around 600 cm-1 were almost disappeared within experimental noises at 35 and 20K
indicating that o-H2 was converted to p-H2. The intensity ratio of between the peak C and a sum of
the peaks A and B from profile fittings were less than 7(3)% at 35 K and 1.2(9)% at 20K. The result
supports that most of the H2 at the site-II and -III are p-H2. We propose two principal processes to
induce the conversion from o-H2 to p-H2 in the present PCP: (1) trapping of H2 at the site-II and
-III; (2) site exchange from site-I and -II to site-III by cooling.
Page 4, line 13. A mechanism cannot be the best possible. It can rather be the most
plausible to explain the observed data.
We changed the paragraph “We found that … present system …” to “Recently, fast o-p
conversions of the order of one or a few minutes have been observed on the H2 physisorbed PCP
[28] and amorphous solid water (ASW) [29]. The several mechanisms, Spin-Orbit-Electric
Dipole-Hyperfine Contact (SOPY) [29], ion-molecule electron exchanges (XY), and charge transfer
[30,31], have also been proposed theoretically for these fast o-p conversions of non-magnetic
insulating catalysts. Since measurement time of the present SR-PXRD and Raman spectrum were
about 10 minutes. An upper limit of the o-p conversion time in the present PCP is proposed 10
minutes. Most of the recently proposed mechanisms, such as SOPY, XY, and charge-transfer, can
be applied to the present system. For example, the E(r) gradient from the site-I to site-III can be
applied to SOPY. In order to determine the conversion process experimentally, more conversion
time resolution is required.”
For the benefit of the reader, can the authors give a better description of the absorption
/desorption procedure used in the supplementary information? Was pressure set to zero to
achieve desorption at fixed temperature?
We added a description of the adsorption/desorption procedure in the supporting information with
an additional figure as suggested by the reviewer.
Reply to Reviewer 2
First, we would like to thank the present reviewers for helpful suggestions in revising the
manuscript. We carefully revised the manuscript. Detail replies and changes we have made in the
manuscript are as follows:
Overview
2. Insufficiently related to similar conversion studies. Abstract and conclusion should be re-written.
Introduction, main text and references need revisions. (see details below)
We added references as suggested by the reviewer.
3. Presentation awkward: Facts should appear first, then the deductions, then eventually the
speculations for future investigations.
We changed our presentation as suggested by the reviewer.
5. Lack of information on the initial o/p ratio and possible conversion times. The only information I
found was in the supplement: « Hydrogen was loaded into the capillary at 10 K”, but if so it
might have been 100% para? Duration of 12 minutes is given for each exposure: does-it include
the time to cool or heat the sample? Where is the hydrogen stored before cooling ? Can an upper
limit of the conversion time be proposed?
We added information of the Hydrogen used in the present study. We also described an upper limit
of the conversion time in the present study.
6. Raman lines identification given in relation with the site occupation is possible but not as certain
as stated. Different effects might interfere, as e.g. the lines B or D might shift and broad with
temperature, the J=2 and J=3 energy levels might be splitted by the anisotropic potential… A few
additional lines are not mentioned…
We added the discussion about peaks B and D as suggested by the reviewer.
Abstract
P1 L40-6 “to respond to an electric field gradient”, “provide a scenario of the mechanism: the
electric field…” is not demonstrated! “consistent with a theoretical prediction of electric
field-induced nuclear spin flips..”: yes but can lead to a variety of mechanisms. “Suggest… a new
stage of o-p conversion and lead to a new catalytic system” was already observed since 1992 (Ref
a… see below).
I would prefer: The present results corroborate similar findings observed on different systems and
confirm that o-p conversion can occur on non-magnetic solids and that electric processes can
induce such hydrogen catalysis.
We fully agree your suggestions. We change the sentences to “The present results corroborate
similar findings observed on different systems and confirm that o-p conversion can occur on
non-magnetic solids and that electric field can induce the catalytic hydrogen o-p conversion.” as
suggested by the reviewer.
Introduction
P1 L55-58 “Detected as a spin state and rotational energy level”. Wrong formulation: conversion is
a dynamical process (exchange of energy). It is not a state, neither an energy level: it involves
transitions.
We removed the sentence, “The conversion has been normally detected as a spin state and rotational
energy level by spectroscopy”. Since both reviewers pointed out this point.
“...has never been visualized experimentally” not correct, see for example Ref b, f, g … below.
We changed the sentence to “The atomic configurations of H2 molecules on the surface have
recently been visualized by a neutron powder diffraction [14] and scanning tunneling microscope
[15,16].” We also added reference 14,15,16 as suggested by the reviewer.
Hydrogen Sites
P2 L52 “other minima were found…” Are Site II (and III) potential minima and if not comment why
H2 sits there.
We carefully reinvestigated the electrostatic potential. Other minima are not real minima. This is the
minimum along with a- (and b- ) axis. The potential distribution at this point is almost flat
perpendicular to a-axis. An additional comments about site-II and III were described in the reply for
P3 L3-6, and P3 L19.
P2 L54-56 “aspherical shape of the charge density indicates orientational disorder “, and “central
peak extended to diagonal”… Contradictory with: “electrostatic potential around the Site I was
almost spherical,” stated P3 L44 Would the eventual asymmetry induce a rotational level splitting?
We removed “An aspherical shape of the charge density indicates orientational disorder of H2 “.
P3 L 3-6 “strong repulsion between H2 molecules”
P3 L19 “H2 molecules should give and receive strong intermolecular
repulsion”
Is the repulsion really so strong? Short inter-sites distances have been found in MOF, (see ref b,c..
below) and hard sphere close-packed models lead to similar distances!
We remove “strong” in P3 L3 and P3L19 as suggested by the reviewers. We added following
sentences: “The H2···H2 distance in the pore has been estimated by a quantum mechanical
calculations using two harmonic potential model [14]. The study suggested that 3.0 Å is about the
shortest distance between two H2 molecules.”
P3 L20 “the fact”: what fact?
We change the sentences to “There is no expansion of c-axis indicating that four H2 molecules were
located on (001) plane without shift along c-axis.”
P3 L23-4 “We have successfully confined.. SR-PXRD” should be located in the
introduction. “Showed changes of a rotational quantum number” should be located and discussed
in the conclusion?
We moved the sentence “We have successfully confined.. SR-PXRD” to introduction as suggested
by the reviewer. We changed “Raman spectra in H2 adsorbed state showed changes of a rotational
quantum number for H2 by lowering temperature as shown in figure 3e. “ to “Temperature
dependence of Raman spectra in the H2 adsorbed state are shown in Figure 3e.” as suggested by the
reviewers.
Raman Spectra
P3 L33 “quanta should slightly shift owing to an anisotropic electrostatic potential”
If anisotropic ppotential, there is a possibility of the rotational J=1 and 2 level splittings ?
We remove the sentence “quanta should slightly shift owing to an anisotropic electrostatic
potential”.
In Fig. 3 and S5, the Raman Spectrum display other peaks that are never mentioned! Why? In
addition to the para peaks at 330 and 335 cm-1, I locate 7 other ortho peaks at about: 420, 470,
485, 545, 590, 610 and 660 cm-1 that might correspond to different ortho transitions.
We added “In the desorbed state at 77 K (spectrum 5; black), Raman bands at 420, 470, 485, 545
cm-1 were observed and were assigned the vibrational motions of host framework. Three
Raman-active bands were newly appeared at 307 (peak A), 328 (peak B) and 609 cm-1 (peak C) and
were assigned to the adsorbed H2 due to the gas dosing in the same temperature of 77 K (spectrum
4; purple).” to describe origin of other peaks.
P3 L35 “The peaks A, B, C decreased with cooling..” Misprint ? B increases (not a decrease).
We corrected the sentences as suggested by the reviewer.
P3 L36 “which indicates that ortho converted to para” is uncertain at that stage. It should be
discussed later on, in the conclusion.
We removed “which indicates that ortho converted to para” as suggested by the reviewer.
P3 L44 “The spherical potential .. can reduce the excitation energies of pH2 because the spherical
potential can accelerate spherical rotation.. .. and increase the excitation energies of oH2 ..”
Never met such an interpretation. Please explain or give a reference! The shifts might arise from
the splittings.
We removed “The spherical potential at the center of diatomic H2 molecule can reduce the
excitation energies of p-H2 (J = 0 to 2) because the spherical potential can accelerate spherical
rotation. The potential should increase the excitation energies of o-H2 (J = 1 to 3). This is consistent
with a blue-shift of peak C.”
We added “The site-I is only one minima of the electrostatic potential in the pore. There can be the
highest interaction between the adsorbed H2 and the host framework at site-I.”
P3 L48 “The o/p ratio = 1,5 at the site I, which is close to that of normal Hydrogen “ It remains
quite different from the nH2 one for which o/p = 3.
We changed the sentences to “The ratio of o- to p-H2 from Raman intensities at the site-I is
approximately 3 : 2 which is the midpoint between an equilibrium ratios at 77 K (1:1) and at
300K (3:1) of normal H2 “
P3 L54 “Thus, all of the H2 at the site II and III are para. We concluded that conversion occurs at
the site II and III”
Was H2 of ortho concentration before?
We added “Normal hydrogen gas of 6-nine purity was supplied from a gas cylinder for isotherm,
in-situ SR-XRPD, in-situ Raman measurements. “ in the Materials and Method section.
Site II is empty at 35K, does that mean that some conversion occurred at 65K? The molecular
motion is nowhere mentioned in the paper. But it has been shown that H2 moves fast and
incoherently inside micro-cages. See e.g. S. K. Estreicher et al, J. Phys. Condens. Matter 13, 6271
(2001).
We added the sentences: “The charge density at the site-II was almost empty. The hydrogen
molecules at the site-I and –II moved to the site-III from 65 to 35 K. Site exchanges were occurred
only with cooling from 65 to 35 K.” to describe the molecular movement in the pore.
As concerns the superposition between the peaks D and B, they may refer to different sites, as
stated differently occupied in function of temperature. But, different interpretations are possible
such as broadening and shifts induced by interaction with the framework phonons (see ref. e
below, in particular figures 6 and 8 of e)
We added following sentences: “The peak broadening and shift similar to the peak B was recently
observed in the Raman study of H2 in ZnO [27]. In this case, the Raman bands of framework
changed with cooling and the shift was interpreted by the interaction between rotational mode of
confined H2 (at around 320 cm-1) and the framework phonons (at 379 cm-1). In our case, Raman
bands of framework were not observed in the vicinity of the peak B, and also showed no change.
Therefore, the shift of peak B was assigned to the migration of H2 between the site-II and the
site-III from the experimentally determined structures.”
Conclusion
P4 L2-10 “We found that … present system”
Instead of an awkward repetition of the suggested SOPY electron path (not clearly related to the
present experimental study) better refer to 24 and to the theoretical studies h and I (below) where
such a path is described and compared to other ones. Better introduce instead a discussion on
your results, remaining questions… on the possible conversion through different paths and
eventually on the different mechanisms that might have occurred. For example: - electron
transfers (real or virtual) are well known to be favored by electric fields - Intermolecular
conversion between adjacent molecules as observed by B.S. Burkholder.
We changed the paragraph “We found that … present system …” to “Recently, fast o-p
conversions of the order of one or a few minutes have been observed on the H2 physisorbed PCP
[28] and amorphous solid water (ASW) [29]. The several mechanisms, Spin-Orbit-Electric
Dipole-Hyperfine Contact (SOPY) [29], ion-molecule electron exchanges (XY), and charge transfer
[30,31], have also been proposed theoretically for these fast o-p conversions of non-magnetic
insulating catalysts. Since measurement time of the present SR-PXRD and Raman spectrum were
about 10 minutes. An upper limit of the o-p conversion time in the present PCP is proposed 10
minutes. Most of the recently proposed mechanisms, such as SOPY, XY, and charge-transfer, can
be applied to the present system. For example, the E(r) gradient from the site-I to site-III can be
applied to SOPY. In order to determine the conversion process experimentally, more conversion
time resolution is required.” as suggested by the reviewers.
I believe these changes satisfy all of the comments made by the reviewers. We appreciate
the helpful suggestions offered by the two referees as their comments were very useful for revising
this manuscript. We would be grateful if the manuscript could be reviewed and considered for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Sincerely yours,
EIJI NISHIBORI,
Faculty of Pure and Applied Sciences, TIMS & CiRfSE, University of Tsukuba,
1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 305-8751, JAPAN
Tel : +81-29-853-7787
e-mail: nishibori.eiji.ga@u.tsukuba.ac.jp
MASAKI TAKATA
RIKEN SPring-8 Center,
RIKEN 1-1-1 Kouto, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo 679-5148, JAPAN,
tel ; +81-791-58-2942
fax; +81- 791-58-2717
e-mail: takatama@spring8.or.jp
Appendix D
June 30, 2015
Manuscript ID: RSOS-150006
Title: "Coordination Nano-Space as Stage of Hydrogen Ortho-Para Conversion"
Author(s): Takashi Kosone, Akihiro Hori, Eiji Nishibori*, Yoshiki Kubota, Akio Mishima,
Masaaki Ohba, Hiroshi Tanaka, Kenichi Kato, Jungeun Kim, José Antonio Real, Susumu Kitagawa,
Masaki Takata*
Dear Editor,
First, we would like to thank the present editor and the reviewer for helpful suggestions in
revising the manuscript. We have revised the manuscript after carefully considering the suggestions
made by the referee. Details for reply to referee and changes we have made are as follows:
Reply to Reviewer 1
First, we would like to thank the present reviewer for helpful suggestions in revising the manuscript.
We carefully revised the manuscript. Detail replies and changes we have made in the manuscript are
as follows:
Please correct Reference 7 published in 1986 and not 1982.
We corrected Reference 7 published in 1986.
Changed we have made.
1. We submitted raw powder diffraction profiles, Raman spectra, and adsorption isotherm data as
supporting data.
2. We changed Authors' Contributions section as follows:
“TK carried out the synthesis. TK, YK, KK, KJ and EN carried out SR-PXRD measurements. TK.
and EN interpreted and discussed the results and structural analysis. AH, SK and MO carried out
adsorption isotherm and Raman spectrum measurements. AM, AH, EN, and MO carried out
magnetic measurements. HT and KJ calculated and analyzed an electrostatic potential. TK, AH, YK,
MO, JR, SK, MT and EN were involved in discussions. All authors commented on the paper, which
was written by TK, AH, EN and MT. All authors gave final approval for publication.”
3. We changed Data Accessibility section as follows:
“The datasets supporting this article have been uploaded as part of the Supplementary Material. The
material contains all powder diffraction data, Raman spectra, and adsorption isotherm data used in
this study.”
We believe these change satisfy all of the comment made by the reviewer. We appreciate the
helpful suggestions offered by the referee as the comment was very useful for revising this
manuscript. We would be grateful if the manuscript could be reviewed and considered for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Sincerely yours,
EIJI NISHIBORI,
Faculty of Pure and Applied Sciences, TIMS & CiRfSE, University of Tsukuba,
1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 305-8751, JAPAN
Tel : +81-29-853-7787
e-mail: nishibori.eiji.ga@u.tsukuba.ac.jp
MASAKI TAKATA
RIKEN SPring-8 Center,
RIKEN 1-1-1 Kouto, Sayo-cho, Sayo-gun, Hyogo 679-5148, JAPAN,
tel ; +81-791-58-2942
fax; +81- 791-58-2717
e-mail: takatama@spring8.or.jp
Society Open
