The Electric Honeycomb; an investigation of the Rose
window instability
Muhammad Shaheer Niazi
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170503.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170503
Review timeline
Original submission: 24 May 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 19 August 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 September 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170503.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Comments on Manuscript RSOS-170503
This paper is primarily an experimental study that reproduces some previously reported
observations related to the Rose Window Instability (RWI). I believe the thermal gradient results
are new.
The experiments were carefully carried out although not all details are well described. Also many
of the explanations are unclear. In particular the author does not seem to really understand the
characteristics of the corona discharge. This is very important as it is the source of the driving
mechanism, the ion layer. I suggest that revisions are required.
Following are some areas that I have difficulty with and need clarification.
1) The power supply used was a 0-10kV DC unit stated as capable of being pulsed between
50-500 kHz. Nowhere does the author report what pulse frequency was used and/or why a
specific value was selected? This will have a major effect on the V-I characteristic.(Fig 11)
2) How was the current measured? No instrument is listed. This is not trivial in pulsed
corona.
3) The author shows lack of knowledge about the fundamentals of the corona discharge.
For example the fact that there is no current detected before the threshold voltage is due to the
nature of corona. The author ascribes the resulting current flow to the ion buildup on the oil
surface and subsequent “dielectric breakdown” due to the thinning of the oil layer. I see no
evidence to suggest breakdown actually occurs, ion migration is a more likely explanation.
4) Further to this, the statement “before the instability initiates, we measure zero current at
the grounded electrode” is used to imply no “breakdown” of the oil film occurs at these lower
voltages. The reason (unstated in the paper) is that no corona forms at the lower voltages and
hence no ions accumulate.
5) The suggestion that the linear dependence on voltage is because E=V/L is not true in the
non linear field found in corona. It is true that this may approximate the result over small ranges
but again it neglects the fact that the field gradient near the tip is primarily driven by the tip
radius and not the value of L. At the very least I would expect the author to show this
dependency and then argue why the limit applies.
6) In Fig 11 the author should clarify cause and effect. He states that no current flows before
the threshold voltage of RWI is reached. This threshold voltage marks the onset of corona, hence
the ion buildup on the oil and the initiation of RWI. In this context the author’s conclusion that
ions are the cause of the instability is trivial and not new.
7) I could not follow the argument for Fig 12 and am not convinced it is correct.
8) Most of the results reported are confirmation of those previously observed by other
authors. The new data that relates to the thermal gradient is interesting but results for only two
instants of time are reported. In my opinion more data should have been presented and this
section expanded.
9) There are many places in the text where inappropriate words are used and should be
caught by a careful editing; eg “lay bare”, “cement”, “stiffening”, “cell” vs “bead” etc.
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Alberto Pérez Izquierdo)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached file (Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170503)
26-Jul-2017
Dear Mr Niazi,
The editors assigned to your paper ("The Electric Honeycomb; an investigation of the Rose
Window Instability") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise
your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 18-Aug-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
4
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170503
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
5
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Miles Padgett
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
Thankyou for submitting your work RSOS. Two expert reviewers have given detailed feedback
on your manuscript. Provided the recommendations are thoroughly addressed in the next
revision this manuscript can be accepted in RSOS. Please also consider adding additional
references, reflecting wider work on this topic.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Comments on Manuscript RSOS-170503
This paper is primarily an experimental study that reproduces some previously reported
observations related to the Rose Window Instability (RWI). I believe the thermal gradient results
are new.
The experiments were carefully carried out although not all details are well described. Also many
of the explanations are unclear. In particular the author does not seem to really understand the
characteristics of the corona discharge. This is very important as it is the source of the driving
mechanism, the ion layer. I suggest that revisions are required.
Following are some areas that I have difficulty with and need clarification.
6
1) The power supply used was a 0-10kV DC unit stated as capable of being pulsed between
50-500 kHz. Nowhere does the author report what pulse frequency was used and/or why a
specific value was selected? This will have a major effect on the V-I characteristic.(Fig 11)
2) How was the current measured? No instrument is listed. This is not trivial in pulsed
corona.
3) The author shows lack of knowledge about the fundamentals of the corona discharge.
For example the fact that there is no current detected before the threshold voltage is due to the
nature of corona. The author ascribes the resulting current flow to the ion buildup on the oil
surface and subsequent “dielectric breakdown” due to the thinning of the oil layer. I see no
evidence to suggest breakdown actually occurs, ion migration is a more likely explanation.
4) Further to this, the statement “before the instability initiates, we measure zero current at
the grounded electrode” is used to imply no “breakdown” of the oil film occurs at these lower
voltages. The reason (unstated in the paper) is that no corona forms at the lower voltages and
hence no ions accumulate.
5) The suggestion that the linear dependence on voltage is because E=V/L is not true in the
non linear field found in corona. It is true that this may approximate the result over small ranges
but again it neglects the fact that the field gradient near the tip is primarily driven by the tip
radius and not the value of L. At the very least I would expect the author to show this
dependency and then argue why the limit applies.
6) In Fig 11 the author should clarify cause and effect. He states that no current flows before
the threshold voltage of RWI is reached. This threshold voltage marks the onset of corona, hence
the ion buildup on the oil and the initiation of RWI. In this context the author’s conclusion that
ions are the cause of the instability is trivial and not new.
7) I could not follow the argument for Fig 12 and am not convinced it is correct.
8) Most of the results reported are confirmation of those previously observed by other
authors. The new data that relates to the thermal gradient is interesting but results for only two
instants of time are reported. In my opinion more data should have been presented and this
section expanded.
9) There are many places in the text where inappropriate words are used and should be
caught by a careful editing; eg “lay bare”, “cement”, “stiffening”, “cell” vs “bead” etc.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
see attached file
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170503)
See Appendix B.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170503.R1)
04-Sep-2017
Dear Mr Niazi,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "The Electric Honeycomb; an
investigation of the Rose Window Instability" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
The author has thoroughly addressed the major reviewer concerns. I am happy to recommend
publication in RSOS
Appendix A
Report on “The electric honeycomb; an investigation of the Rose Window
instability
By Muhammad Shaheer Niazi
This paper presents an experimental research on the Rose Window instability induced by
corona discharge in a point-to-plate geometry. The author reports measurements of the
instability threshold as a function of the point height or the liquid layer thickness. Also the
variation of the cell size with voltage and a measurement of temperature distribution on the
liquid surface are considered. As a whole the paper is interesting as an experimental study and
I am favorable to its publication in “Royal Society Open Science”. However, there are several
points that deserve the author attention prior to publication. These are:
<U+F0B7> In page 6, lines 11 to 15 the author discusses how the presence of objects block the
path of ions towards the surface of the oil. As a consequence, the instability
disappears. But this fact is not due only to the block of ions path, but also to the block
of the electric field itself. This is evident in the case of metals, and can be the case for
insulating materials, like a sheet of paper, if they become charged as a result of the ion
flow. To be specific, the fact that the presence of obstacles inhibit the instability does
not prove that it is due to the ion flow. (Although we have other reasons to think that
this is the case)
<U+F0B7> I think that the threshold found in the current-voltage characteristic shown in figure 11
is the corona discharge threshold, and not the instability threshold. The influence of
the convection on the current is too small to be observed. The author can test this fact
making a current-voltage characteristic without liquid layer.
<U+F0B7> In page 8 lines 6 to 12 it is said that the Benard instability occurs because the heat
energy absorbed by the oil exceeds the amount dissipated, and something similar
happens in the Rose-window instability. The author concludes that the instability
stabilizes the system. Also, in the caption of figure 12 it is said “to maintain equilibrium
in the medium”. These expressions are not rigorously right. It is right to say that the
flow augments the heat or the current transfer, but the situation is not of equilibrium
neither before nor after the instability appears, and there is always a balance between
the energy provided and the energy dissipated if a steady state is reached.
pendix B
ociate Editor: 1
mments to the Author:
nkyou for submitting your work RSOS. Two expert reviewers have given detailed feedback on your
uscript. Provided the recommendations are thoroughly addressed in the next revision this manuscript can
ccepted in RSOS. Please also consider adding additional references, reflecting wider work on this topic.
ponse from the author:
nk you for your comments! I could not find any additional refrences except the ones I have added. This
nomena has not many papers published, or ones available on the internet.
mments from the editors and reviewers:
viewer 1
paper is primarily an experimental study that reproduces some previously reported observations
ted to the Rose Window Instability (RWI). I believe the thermal gradient results are new.
experiments were carefully carried out although not all details are well described. Also many of the
lanations are unclear. In particular the author does not seem to really understand the characteristics
he corona discharge. This is very important as it is the source of the driving mechanism, the ion layer. I
gest that revisions are required.
owing are some areas that I have difficulty with and need clarification.
1) The power supply used was a 0-10kV DC unit stated as capable of being pulsed between 50-500 kHz.
Nowhere does the author report what pulse frequency was used and/or why a specific value was
selected? This will have a major effect on the V-I characteristic.(Fig 11)
sponse from author:
nk you for the review!
high Voltage supply used was an EMCO Q101-5, which is a High Voltage - Isolated Module DC DC
verter 1 Output 10000V 50µA 0.7V - 5V Input. It did not have an independent frequency control. Stated
cal frequency is 75-500kHz, which I have now corrected by double checking the data sheet
p://www.xppower.com/Portals/0/pdfs/SF_Q_Series.pdf)
ve included in the paper, the model of the power supply under the “Materials and method” section.
How was the current measured? No instrument is listed. This is not trivial in pulsed corona.
sponse from author:
rent was measured from a UNI-T UT60 multimeter. Output Voltage was also meausured using this
iced coupled with a EMCO v1G High voltage divider, with ratio 1000:1.
p://www.xppower.com/Portals/0/High-Voltage/SF_V1G_Series.pdf?ver=2017-01-12-093325-677)
The author shows lack of knowledge about the fundamentals of the corona discharge. For example the
that there is no current detected before the threshold voltage is due to the nature of corona. The author
ibes the resulting current flow to the ion buildup on the oil surface and subsequent “dielectric breakdown”
to the thinning of the oil layer. I see no evidence to suggest breakdown actually occurs, ion migration is a
e likely explanation.
sponse from author:
ve tried best to make things in my paper understandable even by the lay man. For simplicity in
erstanding, I have said, that “one can visualize” the phenomena as dielectric breakdown. The onset of
ona is also the onset of the instability.
urther to this, the statement “before the instability initiates, we measure zero current at the grounded
trode” is used to imply no “breakdown” of the oil film occurs at these lower voltages. The reason (unstated
e paper) is that no corona forms at the lower voltages and hence no ions accumulate.
sponse from author:
nk you for pointing this out, I have corrected it.
The suggestion that the linear dependence on voltage is because E=V/L is not true in the non linear field
d in corona. It is true that this may approximate the result over small ranges but again it neglects the fact
the field gradient near the tip is primarily driven by the tip radius and not the value of L. At the very least I
ld expect the author to show this dependency and then argue why the limit applies.
sponse from author:
ve not called E=V/L but E~V/L as we aren’t very close to the tip of the pin. The electric field can be
umed as parallel near the grounded plate at this voltage range and on the instability region in question
he ratios in pin height and instability radius aren’t that large, so we can assume a homogenous field in
instability region. I have included a few lines explaining this.
In Fig 11 the author should clarify cause and effect. He states that no current flows before the threshold
age of RWI is reached. This threshold voltage marks the onset of corona, hence the ion buildup on the oil
the initiation of RWI. In this context the author’s conclusion that ions are the cause of the instability is trivial
not new.
sponse from author:
spite not being new, I have simplified the process of replicating the experiment and further
ngthened the role of ions in the little known phenomena. Nevertheless I have included a few
s in the conclusion highlighting the new perspectives to the phenomena, namely thermal and
lieren.
I could not follow the argument for Fig 12 and am not convinced it is correct.
sponse from author:
to suggestioins from many reviewers, I have removed this figure and replaced it with freshly taken
lieren photographs of the air gap between the oil and needle.
Most of the results reported are confirmation of those previously observed by other authors. The new
that relates to the thermal gradient is interesting but results for only two instants of time are reported. In
opinion more data should have been presented and this section expanded.
sponse from author:
ve added 2 more instants of time, the start of instability and half a minute into it. After 5 minutes there
o further increase in temperature. I have also performed schlieren photography of the air gap between
needle point and the ground electrode to image the corona streamer and resulting gas flow.
There are many places in the text where inappropriate words are used and should be caught by a careful
ng; eg “lay bare”, “cement”, “stiffening”, “cell” vs “bead” etc.
sponse from author:
rected
mments from the editors and reviewers:
viewer 2
s paper presents an experimental research on the Rose Window instability induced by
ona discharge in a point-to-plate geometry. The author reports measurements of the
tability threshold as a function of the point height or the liquid layer thickness. Also
variation of the cell size with voltage and a measurement of temperature distribution
the liquid surface are considered. As a whole the paper is interesting as an
erimental study and I am favorable to its publication in “Royal Society Open
ence”. However, there are several points that deserve the author attention prior to
blication. These are:
page 6, lines 11 to 15 the author discusses how the presence of objects block the
h of ions towards the surface of the oil. As a consequence, the instability disappears.
t this fact is not due only to the block of ions path, but also to the block of the electric
d itself. This is evident in the case of metals, and can be the case for insulating
terials, like a sheet of paper, if they become charged as a result of the ion flow. To be
cific, the fact that the presence of obstacles inhibit the instability does not prove that
due to the ion flow. (Although we have other reasons to think that this is the case)
sponse from Author:
nk you for your review! Yes I agree, but the very interesting thing was how due to the
ckage the rest of the instability profile remains unchanged and retains its size etc, if charged
ould disrupt the profile of the instability which is unshielded as well.
hink that the threshold found in the current-voltage characteristic shown in figure 11
he corona discharge threshold, and not the instability threshold. The influence of the
vection on the current is too small to be observed. The author can test this fact
king a current-voltage characteristic without liquid layer.
sponse from Author:
instability and corona are undoubtedly related in this phenomena. The jump in current from
to some finite value starts exactly as the dimple forms, which marks the start of the
ability, thus the reason of calling it instability threshold. I have edited the caption of figure 11
…which marks the initiation of the instability/corona.” to avoid confusion
age 8 lines 6 to 12 it is said that the Benard instability occurs because the heat
rgy absorbed by the oil exceeds the amount dissipated, and something similar
pens in the Rose-window instability. The author concludes that the instability
bilizes the system. Also, in the caption of figure 12 it is said “to maintain equilibrium
he medium”. These expressions are not rigorously right. It is right to say that the flow
ments the heat or the current transfer, but the situation is not of equilibrium neither
ore nor after the instability appears, and there is always a balance between the energy
vided and the energy dissipated if a steady state is reached.
sponse from the Author:
ve removed fig 12 about the benard instability from my manuscript and replaced it with more
resting and freshly captured schlieren images of the air gap between the needle and the oil.
Society Open
