Prevalence rates of health and welfare conditions in broiler
chickens change with weather in a temperate climate
Chérie E. Part, Phil Edwards, Shakoor Hajat and Lisa M. Collins
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160197.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160197
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 March 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 1 June 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 12 July 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 8 August 2016
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160197.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Pablo Romero-Barrios)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Data availability is described in manuscript. Supplementary files include the data described and
seem complete.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see my comments in the attached file. (See Appendix A.)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Joy Mench)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
This is a very large scale project and it is not clear to me what extent of supporting data needs to
be provided
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I don't often say this, but this is an excellent paper and in my opinion could be accepted without
revision. It is extremely well written, on an important topic, and represents a very comprehensive
survey of broiler mortality and health conditions in the UK, as related to several environmental
variables. The authors are very careful to place their work in the context of other studies and to
clarify additional factors (both national and regional) that could have affected outcomes. Some of
the results are not too surprising (e.g. the relationship between colder weather and the incidence
of ascites), but the size of the data set is very impressive and makes a compelling case.
This may not be possible because of the large scale of this study (and the fact that the data were
collected at the plant), but it would have been useful to have additional information about the
characteristics of the farms involved, for comparative purposes for those of us who do similar
research (or are involved in broiler production) outside the UK. Might it be possible to add
information about the mean/median and ranges among these farms for things like: 1) flock size
per house; 2) stocking density; 3) age at slaughter; 4) transport distance to plant; also
breed/strains represented in the flocks. I was able to obtain some piecemeal pictures from the
paper (e.g. paragraph beginning l. 446; also info is provided in methods on % production in
3
different systems), but it would have been nice to have information in the methods that allowed
one to form an overall picture of the variety within the flocks/management (I am not suggesting,
however, that the authors try to systematically include these variables in their models, just to
provide them for descriptive purposes)
Other minor comments:
l. 74 it would be helpful to expand this a bit to indicate why - I presume it is because keeping
animals at high stocking densities contributes to heat generation and also (perhaps) makes it
more difficult for them to use behavioural methods of thermoregulation?
l. 357 - do UK producers heat their houses in the winter? That isn't common in some other areas
of the world (like the US and Latin America) - the problem is not usually cold temperatures, it is
dealing with heat stress in the summer months.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160197)
10-May-2016
Dear Ms Part,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Prevalence rates of health and welfare conditions in broiler
chickens change with weather in a temperate climate.") has now received comments from
reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject
Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 02-Jun-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
4
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160197
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Please see my comments in the attached file.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
I don't often say this, but this is an excellent paper and in my opinion could be accepted without
revision. It is extremely well written, on an important topic, and represents a very comprehensive
survey of broiler mortality and health conditions in the UK, as related to several environmental
variables. The authors are very careful to place their work in the context of other studies and to
clarify additional factors (both national and regional) that could have affected outcomes. Some of
the results are not too surprising (e.g. the relationship between colder weather and the incidence
of ascites), but the size of the data set is very impressive and makes a compelling case.
This may not be possible because of the large scale of this study (and the fact that the data were
collected at the plant), but it would have been useful to have additional information about the
characteristics of the farms involved, for comparative purposes for those of us who do similar
research (or are involved in broiler production) outside the UK. Might it be possible to add
information about the mean/median and ranges among these farms for things like: 1) flock size
per house; 2) stocking density; 3) age at slaughter; 4) transport distance to plant; also
breed/strains represented in the flocks. I was able to obtain some piecemeal pictures from the
paper (e.g. paragraph beginning l. 446; also info is provided in methods on % production in
different systems), but it would have been nice to have information in the methods that allowed
one to form an overall picture of the variety within the flocks/management (I am not suggesting,
however, that the authors try to systematically include these variables in their models, just to
provide them for descriptive purposes)
Other minor comments:
l. 74 it would be helpful to expand this a bit to indicate why - I presume it is because keeping
animals at high stocking densities contributes to heat generation and also (perhaps) makes it
more difficult for them to use behavioural methods of thermoregulation?
6
l. 357 - do UK producers heat their houses in the winter? That isn't common in some other areas
of the world (like the US and Latin America) - the problem is not usually cold temperatures, it is
dealing with heat stress in the summer months.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160197)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-160197.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Pablo Romero-Barrios)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Please see the attached document. (See Appendix C.)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160197.R1)
21-Jun-2016
Dear Ms Part:
Manuscript ID RSOS-160197.R1 entitled "Prevalence rates of health and welfare conditions in
broiler chickens change with weather in a temperate climate." which you submitted to Royal
7
Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments of the reviewer(s) are included at the
bottom of this letter.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 14-Jul-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
8
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Sincerely,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Please see the attached document.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160197.R1)
See Appendix D.
9
label_version_3
RSOS-160197.R2 (Revision)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Pablo Romero-Barrios)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
I consider that the Authors have addressed the issues that I raised during the review process,
therefore from my side I would be pleased if the paper is published. Thank you for your work!
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160197.R2)
08-Aug-2016
Dear Ms Part,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Prevalence rates of health and welfare
conditions in broiler chickens change with weather in a temperate climate." is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
10
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I consider that the Authors have addressed the issues that I raised during the review process,
therefore from my side I would be pleased if the paper is published. Thank you for your work!
pendix A
ments on “Prevalence rates of health and welfare conditions in broiler chickens change with
ther in a temperate climate”
eral comments
paper describes the prevalence of certain broiler health and welfare conditions in space and time in
United Kingdom (UK). The results are based on the analysis of a large dataset of slaughterhouse
- and post-mortem records. The descriptive information is useful and interesting and, to my
wledge, has not been published before for the UK; it is good to see that somebody is finally making
of such data.
ertheless, I have some concerns about the analysis and interpretation of the results
ve a number of more specific comments, please see below for details
cific comments
oduction
omments for this section
erials and methods
two datasets used in this study need to be more clearly outlined at the outset. Given that both
tain very similar data, I found confusing that there were two datasets and that they were analysed
rently. The text used in lines 17-21 in the abstract could be used, for example. It would also help
wing why this was the case (i.e. intentional split of data vs data only available this way).
en describing the data it may be useful to start with the monthly data, as the batch data are (I
eve) basically the same except there is more detail available (batch information). The reference to
e 1 would make more sense too.
s 104-105: I don’t think ‘cutting plants’ should be included here, as these conditions are not
rded at these establishments (if they are they should probably be excluded as you would not be
to trace them back to the original batch or date of slaughter).
121: “Records were verified by the OV on a daily basis…” It is not clear what records were verified: I
eve what happens is that when the inspection is carried out by PIAs, the OV does check a sample of
asses, but probably this would not happen if the OV had carried out the inspections in the first
e.
s 124-125: “Verification inspections…” Do you mean verification by the OV? Who sets the quota? By
oducing this term the reader may be confused as to whether this constitutes a different dataset for a
et of carcasses. Why is this verification important for the purposes of this study?
140: Reference to Table 1; I found the table a bit confusing, the title refers to monthly data, not
h data, and the headings are also in bold, so some readers may also get confused.
s 159-160: The footnotes to the table are not clear, consider eliminating the second one and change
header to ‘Definitions based on current conditions’.
s 162-164 and 171-173: By aggregating the data from individual plant to an overall, per condition,
-series, the authors risk losing information that could be analysed more effectively. The same can
aid about weather data, see comments for section 2.2.4. below. it would be preferable to analyse
time-series for these conditions by slaughterhouse, with weather data from stations nearby, rather
for the whole country. This approach would allow controlling the effect of slaughterhouse (i.e. the
ct of the inspectors) on the data. By aggregating all the inspection data you are assuming that the
ection was carried out in exactly the same way in all the plants, with equal sensitivity and specificity
he inspection process. This is a stretch; therefore I would expect that the effect of plant is controlled
e analysis (e.g. incorporating plant as a random effect in the time-series analysis model).
ion 2.2.1: Could you please explain how these prevalence rates were weighted, as mentioned in line
, and the rational for doing so?
s 185-186: Consider changing “As per our data sharing agreement with FSA” to “In order to preserve
ducers’ confidentiality” or something along those lines.
s 213-214: What was the purpose of detrending the time-series? Was detrending applied to all the
ditions? Please explain.
ion 2.2.4: As mentioned earlier, aggregating the data could result in loss of information that may be
able for the analysis. It would be preferable to analyse the time-series for these conditions by
ghterhouse, with weather data from stations nearby, rather than for the whole country. This
roach would allow controlling the effect of slaughterhouse (i.e. the effect of the inspectors) on the
. By aggregating all the inspection data you are assuming that the inspection was carried out in
tly the same way in all the plants, with equal sensitivity and specificity of the inspection process.
is a stretch (in fact, you do see differences in the proportion of plants reporting certain conditions in
e 1; therefore I would expect that the effect of plant is controlled in the analysis (e.g. incorporating
t as a random effect in the time-series analysis model).
236: Unclear why going back to -2 months when most broilers live on average less than 40 days.
s 237-240: This paragraph is not very clear; how was stocking density measured? Is it at farm level?
y was this parameter only considered for ascites and not for other conditions?
ults
study assesses the spatial and temporal distribution of 16 conditions detected at slaughterhouses
the relationship between them and weather patterns. The reader assumes that the analyses were
ied out for all the conditions, therefore it is surprising not to see the results for all of them. A lack of
ciation is also a result, so at the very least some text should be included referring to the other
ditions that are not currently mentioned in the paper. The decision to dedicate more attention to
ain conditions should also be explained, otherwise it appears that the authors are cherry-picking the
lts.
ion 3.2: As mentioned above, only some of the conditions are reported for this analysis, so some
referring to the other ones would be necessary. The maps don’t seem to show any discernible
graphical pattern, but the data are aggregated from monthly series into a three-year series. It would
nteresting to know if there are any changes to the geographical pattern shown over time. This would
ire analysing the data in a different way, so if this is not possible it should at least be discussed.
s 277-282: The decision to exclude a large number of observations for these two conditions seems
trary. What were the reasons for these increases? It would be better if this was explained to allow
reader to assess if there was any potential relationship with weather patterns.
s 283-292/293-297/298-305: As mentioned earlier, an explanation is required for the conditions
are not mentioned in these paragraphs.
294: regular 12-months intervals?
ion 3.4: Again only the results for some of the conditions are reported. This should be explained and
fied. As discussed in the methodology section, this section may need to be re-written after
alysing the data.
ussion
section may need to be revised after reanalysing the data, however, I would urge the authors to be
ious regarding any inferences they make from their analyses. The results show an association
ween some conditions and temperature, for example ascites, but this doesn’t necessarily imply
ality. Ascites in broilers is related to pulmonary arterial hypertension, a multifactorial syndrome
lving several causes. Although temperature may be important in the epidemiology of this condition,
er factors cannot be discounted, for example poor ventilation, poor air quality or the presence of
ogens (see Wideman et al., 2013. Poultry Science, Volume: 92 Issue: 1 Pages: 64-83). It is also not
r if temperature would be a direct or indirect cause (e.g. when cold outside some producers may
ce ventilation to keep warm air in the poultry houses, which impacts the quality of the air). The
ors should avoid oversimplifying the relationship between the condition and the temperature and
ide more information about other important risk factors.
s 343-345: Readers cannot judge if this is the case due to the information in the results’ section
g limited to some conditions only. It is therefore assumed that the association does not exist for the
er conditions, so this sentence may need to be revised.
s 373-375: Oversimplification, as mentioned above.
s 437-438: The difference of two degrees could just as easily be explained by the different study
ulation.
s 457-459: This could also be explained by different rates of fractures caused by plant equipment
ng processing (especially wing fractures).
s 472-480: It would be important to also include a discussion about the aggregation from plant level
ational level for some of the analyses.
Appendix B
Manuscript ID: RSOS-160197
Manuscript title: Prevalence rates of health and welfare conditions in broiler chickens
change with weather in a temperate climate.
Response to Reviewer: 1
Dear Reviewer,
Thank you for taking the time to review our paper. We greatly appreciate your feedback and
comments. We have responded to each of your specific comments below and, where deemed
appropriate, have made the advised changes to the manuscript.
Thank you again.
With kind regards,
Chérie Part
___________________________________________________________________________
Materials and Methods
Comment 1:
The two datasets used in this study need to be more clearly outlined at the outset.
Given that both contain very similar data, I found confusing that there were two
datasets and that they were analysed differently. The text used in lines 17-21 in the
abstract could be used, for example. It would also help knowing why this was the case
(i.e. intentional split of data vs data only available this way).
Response 1:
We received two separate datasets from the Food Standards Agency (FSA). The more
detailed, batch-level, data were only recorded/stored by FSA post-transposition of
Council Directive 2007/43/EC (i.e. from 01 July 2010 onwards). Longer-term data
were only available as monthly totals per slaughterhouse. We drew on the strengths of
each dataset in our paper so as to provide a comprehensive overview of broiler health
and welfare in Great Britain (e.g. the longer time frame covered by the monthly
dataset to identify long-term trends and annual cycles, and the corresponding food
chain information at batch-level to map the distribution of health and welfare
conditions across Great Britain).
In order to clarify the use of the two separate datasets at the outset, paragraph two of
the Materials and Methods section (lines 102-112) now reads:
“Data collected after transposition of Council Directive 2007/43/EC [27] (i.e. from 01
July 2010 onwards) were available at batch-level (see section 2.1.1.3), and included
the location at which each batch had been reared (i.e. producer/farm postcode).
Longer-term data (spanning back to January 2003) were only available as monthly
totals per slaughterhouse (number slaughtered and counts of each health/welfare
condition; see section 2.1.1.2), with no corresponding food chain information. Both
datasets were shared by FSA, and each was used for different analyses herein.
National prevalence rates and distribution mapping were based on batch-level data
from >2.4 billion individuals, collected between January 2011 and December 2013.
Whereas, analysis of temporal distribution and associations with national weather
were based on monthly data from >6.8 billion individuals, collected between January
2003 and December 2013”.
As suggested, the paragraph above includes the text used in lines 17-21 in the
abstract.
Comment 2:
When describing the data it may be useful to start with the monthly data, as the batch
data are (I believe) basically the same except there is more detail available (batch
information). The reference to Table 1 would make more sense too.
Response 2:
We agree, and have changed the order of dataset descriptions to begin with the
monthly data.
Comment 3:
Lines 104-105: I don’t think ‘cutting plants’ should be included here, as these
conditions are not recorded at these establishments (if they are they should probably
be excluded as you would not be able to trace them back to the original batch or date
of slaughter).
Response 3:
I believe you are right, “cutting plants” should not have been included here. In some
cases, a slaughterhouse and cutting plant are co-located and share an FSA code, which
is why I think there had been some confusion. “Cutting plants” has now been
removed from lines 104-105 (now line 115).
Comment 4:
Line 121: “Records were verified by the OV on a daily basis…” It is not clear what
records were verified: I believe what happens is that when the inspection is carried out
by PIAs, the OV does check a sample of carcasses, but probably this would not
happen if the OV had carried out the inspections in the first place.
Response 4:
It was the post-mortem (PM) inspections that were verified, whereby OVs carried out
verification checks of PM inspections on a daily basis. Regulation (EC) 854/2004
states: “…the official veterinarian is personally to carry out the following checks: (a)
daily inspection of the viscera and body cavities of a representative sample of birds;
(b) a detailed inspection of a random sample, from each batch of birds having the
same origin, of parts of birds or entire birds declared unfit for human consumption
following post-mortem inspection…” (Section IV, Chapter V).
These verification checks are used as a tool to measure the effectiveness of the PM
inspection service, where the results of the verification checks are assessed by the OV
or Field Veterinary Coordinator (FVC) to monitor team and individual performance
(FSA, 2015. Manual for Official Controls, Chapter 2.4). In most establishments, a
team of MHIs and/or PIAs carry out the PM inspections, so the OV checks a sample
of carcasses that were inspected by other employees. “In poultry establishments with
a hybrid PM inspection system (i.e. where OV also undertakes PM inspection along
with OAs [MHIs] or PIAs), the FVC must conduct quarterly recorded verification
visits” (FSA, 2015. Manual for Official Controls, Chapter 2.4, p. 2-10). It is our
understanding that these quarterly verification visits do not supplant daily verification
checks by the OV, even checks on those carcasses that the OV had inspected in the
first place. To our knowledge, there is just one ‘OV-only’ slaughterhouse, where the
OV carries out all PM inspections and verification checks. A colleague at FSA has
clarified that, in this case, the OV still carries out the verification checks, even though
they are essentially checking their own work. According to our colleague at FSA, this
has been flagged up as an issue to be considered in the management of this
establishment.
In light of your additional comment below, however, we have deleted the paragraph
outlining verification checks from our manuscript (see Comment and Response 5).
Comment 5:
Lines 124-125: “Verification inspections…” Do you mean verification by the OV?
Who sets the quota? By introducing this term the reader may be confused as to
whether this constitutes a different dataset for a subset of carcasses. Why is this
verification important for the purposes of this study?
Response 5:
We did mean verification checks by the OV. To our knowledge, the weekly quota of
carcass verification checks was set by the FSA, as outlined in the Manual for Official
Controls (FSA, 2015, Chapter 2.4). In retrospect, we agree that introducing the
concept of verification inspections/checks in the ‘Data collection’ section of our
manuscript may lead readers to be confused as to the existence of a different dataset
for a subset of carcasses. Given that we did not have access to such data, we decided
to exclude the paragraph outlining verification checks from our manuscript
(previously lines 121-128). This paragraph had originally been included to highlight
the day-to-day monitoring of PM inspectors’ performance. However, we do not
believe that deleting this information has devalued our paper in any way because, as
you imply, the verification checks were not an integral part of our study.
Comment 6:
Line 140: Reference to Table 1; I found the table a bit confusing, the title refers to
monthly data, not batch data, and the headings are also in bold, so some readers may
also get confused.
Response 6:
Table 1 was included to summarise details of the monthly dataset, and was referred to
in the ‘Batch-level data’ section (now line 151) simply to prevent repetition of the
working labels under which conditions were recorded. We believe that changing the
order of dataset descriptions, to begin with the ‘Monthly data’ section (as you
suggested in comment 2), will prevent any confusion. We have also changed the
batch-level data labels to bold italic text in table 1 (also changed in the reference to
table 1 on line 151 and in the table footnote) to prevent confusion between reference
to condition labels and table headings.
Comment 7:
Lines 159-160: The footnotes to the table are not clear, consider eliminating the
second one and change the header to ‘Definitions based on current conditions’.
Response 7:
We have deleted the second footnote to table 1 and have changed the header to
‘Definitions based on current condition labels’.
Comment 8:
Lines 162-164 and 171-173: By aggregating the data from individual plant to an
overall, per condition, time-series, the authors risk losing information that could be
analysed more effectively. The same can be said about weather data, see comments
for section 2.2.4. below. it would be preferable to analyse the time-series for these
conditions by slaughterhouse, with weather data from stations nearby, rather than for
the whole country. This approach would allow controlling the effect of slaughterhouse
(i.e. the effect of the inspectors) on the data. By aggregating all the inspection data
you are assuming that the inspection was carried out in exactly the same way in all the
plants, with equal sensitivity and specificity of the inspection process. This is a
stretch; therefore I would expect that the effect of plant is controlled in the analysis
(e.g. incorporating plant as a random effect in the time-series analysis model).
Response 8:
This study is part of a larger project in which we are also using the more detailed
(batch-level) data to estimate the effects of farm management and slaughterhouse
practices, whilst controlling for other differences in production, and to model the
associations between condition prevalence rates at slaughter and weather experienced
on-farm. Specifically, we are currently developing a multilevel (three-level, cross
classified) model, with batches nested within daily batches, which are nested within
farms and also within slaughterhouses. (Daily batches are groups of batches that
arrived from the same farm, to the same slaughterhouse, on the same day, and were
processed at the same time, but may vary in other factors, such as their age). We are
estimating: (i) the main effects of production system, on-farm stocking density,
growth rate, age at slaughter, batch size, and season at the beginning and end of life;
(ii) interactions between some of these factors, such as growth rate and age at
slaughter; and (iii) the variability at all levels in the model (batch, daily batch, farm,
and slaughterhouse). We are also currently developing a distributed lag nonlinear
model, where we’re modelling associations between daily fluctuations in temperature
and daily disease prevalence after removing the underlying long-term and seasonal
trends with fitted cubic splines. Building on the findings presented in our paper, we’re
exploring delayed, or ‘lagged’, effects of weather (as measured at the closest weather
station to each farm); modelling the associations between weather experienced during
each day/week of life and condition prevalence at slaughter. Here, we’re aiming to
predict the age at which broilers may be most vulnerable to any harmful effects of hot
or cold outdoor temperatures.
The main aims of our manuscript discussed here were to provide an overview of
broiler chicken health and welfare in Great Britain, as measured at slaughter, and to
describe associations between the prevalence of conditions and weather factors to
inform/guide further research in this field. We believe that the analyses, reported
herein, are appropriate at this stage of the project (and of research in this field) and
that the inspector effect will be more accurately estimated in a multilevel model
(described above), using the batch-level dataset. Controlling for the effect of
slaughterhouse, without also controlling for the effect of farm/production factors
(which was not possible given the level of detail in the monthly dataset), would lead
to uninterpretable estimates of the “slaughterhouse effect”. For example, variability in
prevalence rates between slaughterhouses may indeed reflect differences in the
abilities of slaughterhouse workers to detect these conditions but, alternatively (or
additionally), may reflect differences between farms that send their batches to
particular slaughterhouses. One establishment, for example, may predominantly
slaughter intensively-farmed batches while another establishment may process a
higher proportion of free-range or organically-farmed batches; both of which would
be expected to lead to differences in the prevalence of some conditions reported by
these two slaughterhouses, but the origin of which would be undeterminable using the
monthly dataset.
Further, regarding conditions such as ascites, we would expect the weather
experienced on-farm (i.e. during rearing) to have more effect on the prevalence of
conditions than the weather experienced at the slaughterhouse location.
Unfortunately, the farm locations were not included in the monthly dataset, which is
one of the reasons why we decided to aggregate the data to national-level. Also,
slaughterhouses were only distinguishable through codes in both datasets, and any
information that would enable the location of slaughterhouses to be identified was not
shared by FSA.
We aggregated the monthly data by simply totalling the number slaughtered in all
establishments during the month in question, totalling the number of cases of each
condition detected in all reporting establishments during the month in question, and
calculating the overall monthly prevalence per 10,000 slaughtered. We did not assume
that all inspectors in all slaughterhouses were equally competent in their ability to
detect conditions. (In saying this, the FSA have gone a long way to standardise
detection of conditions across all establishments, and the performance of inspectors is
regularly monitored). Indeed, we recognised that, while inspectors in one
slaughterhouse may become more efficient at detecting a particular condition, a
change of inspectors in another slaughterhouse may reduce efficiency in detecting the
same condition. By aggregating the data as we did, we believe that we essentially
“cancelled out” such discrepancies.
In light of your comment, however, we have also included/amended the following text
in the ‘Discussion’ section (lines 514-526):
“Given the potential food safety and/or quality issues that may arise if conditions are
missed at slaughter/processing, the trigger system in place that launches an
investigation if flock PRs exceed a set threshold level, and post-mortem inspection
verification checks, which are carried out by OVs on a sample of carcasses each day,
we can be confident in the reliability of the batch-level FSA data analysed herein.
Further, poultry condition cards have been specifically developed by FSA personnel
(e.g. Veterinary Managers, Lead Veterinarians, OVs and MHIs), and external experts
in the field of poultry medicine, to standardise identification of post-mortem
conditions in UK slaughterhouses. Photographs and clear descriptions of defective
carcasses, with outcome (i.e. rejection) decisions, provide guidance to post-mortem
inspection teams. Nonetheless, assuming equal sensitivity and specificity of the
inspection process across all establishments at all times may be a stretch too far and,
so, future work will account for variability between slaughterhouses as well as
variability at the farm-level.”
Comment 9:
Section 2.2.1: Could you please explain how these prevalence rates were weighted, as
mentioned in line 251, and the rational for doing so?
Response 9:
We have included the following in section 2.2.1 (lines 192-197):
“For presentation purposes (i.e. order of listing in table 2), the weighted average
annual prevalence rate of each condition was calculated:
Weighted average annual PR = ((2011 annual PR of [condition] * total number of
broilers processed in 2011) + (2012 annual PR of [condition] * total number of
broilers processed in 2012) + (2013 annual PR of [condition] * total number of
broilers processed in 2013)) / total number of broiler processed between 01 January
2011 and 31 December 2013”.
Comment 10:
Lines 185-186: Consider changing “As per our data sharing agreement with FSA” to
“In order to preserve producers’ confidentiality” or something along those lines.
Response 10:
As suggested, we have changed “As per our data sharing agreement with FSA” to “In
order to preserve producers’ confidentiality” (now lines 200-201).
Comment 11:
Lines 213-214: What was the purpose of detrending the time-series? Was detrending
applied to all the conditions? Please explain.
Response 11:
As stated on line 243, the procedures described in section 2.2.3 (including detrending
of PR time-series) followed “the preliminary methods of Warner [51].”
On lines 229-234, we have included:
“Detrending was carried out on each PR time-series that showed evidence of long-
term trends (12 of 16 PR time-series, excluding DOA/DIL, respiratory disease,
salpingitis, and skin lesions/dermatitis) in order to highlight any cyclical/seasonal
patterns in these series. Had time-series with evident long-term trends not been
detrended, the long-term trend component would be the dominant feature seen in the
correlograms, making it difficult to identify any cyclical/seasonal patterns [51].”
We have also included the following paragraph in the discussion section (lines 503-
513):
“Clearly then, weather is not the only factor associated with condemnation rates. Even
ascites PRs, which showed clear seasonal patterns and strong associations with
weather, also demonstrated a long-term trend that could not be explained by weather.
Detrending the monthly PR time-series was a purposeful attempt to isolate seasonal
patterns from the potential effects of other variables, such as genetic selection or
gradual improvements in detecting conditions on-farm or during ante- and/or post-
mortem inspections. Work is currently underway to describe how factors (such as
production system, on-farm stocking density, growth rate, and age at slaughter) might
influence, and interact with weather to influence, broiler health/welfare at slaughter.
The inclusion of such factors was beyond the scope of this paper, but estimations of
their potential impacts will further assist the development of climate change
adaptation strategies for the livestock industry.”
Comment 12:
Section 2.2.4: As mentioned earlier, aggregating the data could result in loss of
information that may be valuable for the analysis. It would be preferable to analyse
the time-series for these conditions by slaughterhouse, with weather data from stations
nearby, rather than for the whole country. This approach would allow controlling the
effect of slaughterhouse (i.e. the effect of the inspectors) on the data. By aggregating
all the inspection data you are assuming that the inspection was carried out in exactly
the same way in all the plants, with equal sensitivity and specificity of the inspection
process. This is a stretch (in fact, you do see differences in the proportion of plants
reporting certain conditions in Table 1; therefore I would expect that the effect of
plant is controlled in the analysis (e.g. incorporating plant as a random effect in the
time-series analysis model).
Response 12:
Please refer to Response 8. Also, the different number of plants that reported certain
conditions (given in table 1) does not necessarily mean that some plants did not detect
certain conditions in any of the batches that they slaughtered, but that some plants did
not contribute to the dataset with respect to all conditions. This is something that we
feel should’ve been flagged up at FSA and, indeed, it may well have been and this
may be one of the reasons why FSA have introduced the “next generation” data
recording system to record all conditions at batch-level.
Comment 13:
Line 236: Unclear why going back to -2 months when most broilers live on average
less than 40 days.
Response 13:
We decided to test for associations with weather at -2 month lags for the purpose of
completeness. As now stated in Section 2.1.1.3, the interquartile range (IQR) of age at
slaughter in the batch-level dataset was 35-45 days (lines 155-156). At the high
extreme of this IQR, weather at -1 month lag would only cover the full lifespan of
broilers that were slaughtered during the first two weeks in any given month. Further,
free-range chickens are not slaughtered before 56 days of age. Using monthly data,
we could not be as specific with “timing effects” as we plan to be in our distributed
lag model (mentioned above), in which we are using daily data to model associations
between prevalence rates and weather and where we have the dates that broilers
arrived on-farm and were sent for slaughter. Nonetheless, including weather at -2
month lags ensured that we covered the full lifespan of (practically all) broilers
included in the monthly dataset.
Comment 14:
Lines 237-240: This paragraph is not very clear; how was stocking density measured?
Is it at farm level? Why was this parameter only considered for ascites and not for
other conditions?
Response 14:
As stated on lines 258-259, stocking density was crudely measured as “the total
number of broilers slaughtered per month”. The rationale behind this was that
“increased consumer demand for chicken meat at particular times of the year might
translate into higher on-farm stocking densities, which suppresses growth rate and,
consequently, the incidence of ascites [66]” (as stated on lines 416-418). Stocking
density was not measured at farm-level as this was not possible given the level of
detail in the monthly dataset. It is not a precise measure of stocking density and this
has been highlighted by changing the wording at the start of the paragraph in question
(line 257) to read: “As a crude exploration of the potential confounding effect of
stocking density…”.
The reason for only considering this parameter for ascites was that we found clear
seasonal patterns in ascites prevalence and strong associations between ascites
prevalence rates and weather, which may have been confounded by stocking density.
We did not find clear seasonal patterns or strong associations with weather when
considering other conditions that would be expected to be influenced by stocking
density, such as cellulitis and skin lesions/dermatitis. This was a post-hoc analysis
whereby we attempted to assess a potential confounding factor in the seasonal
patterns observed in ascites prevalence, besides weather itself.
Results
Comment 15:
This study assesses the spatial and temporal distribution of 16 conditions detected at
slaughterhouses and the relationship between them and weather patterns. The reader
assumes that the analyses were carried out for all the conditions, therefore it is
surprising not to see the results for all of them. A lack of association is also a result,
so at the very least some text should be included referring to the other conditions that
are not currently mentioned in the paper. The decision to dedicate more attention to
certain conditions should also be explained, otherwise it appears that the authors are
cherry-picking the results.
Response 15:
The analyses were carried out for all 16 conditions. The results were not presented
and discussed for all conditions as doing so would have led to an overly lengthy and
long-winded manuscript. We wanted to keep the paper as “to the point” as possible
given the large number of analyses that were carried out, so we presented and
discussed the key findings. In saying this, table 2 contains annual prevalence rates for
all conditions and table 3 presents the correlation coefficients for association (or lack
thereof) between all 16 conditions and three weather variables. Though, in light of
your comment, we have included some text (see Response 18 below) that refers to
conditions not referred to in the previous draft.
With regard to Section 3.2 (‘Spatial distribution of conditions’), we decided to focus
on six conditions believed to be those most likely influenced by the internal or
external environment, as based on previous published literature. We would be more
than happy to write a report/review of this literature, if the Editor deems this
necessary.
With regard to Sections 3.3 and 3.4, we did not set out to dedicate more attention to
some conditions than others. As mentioned above, we simply focussed on the key
findings (i.e. the most noteworthy long-term trends, the clearest seasonal patterns, and
the strongest associations with weather variables). To clarify, the beginning of the
Results section now reads (lines 268-269):
“Due to the large number of analyses that were carried out; henceforth, only the most
noteworthy findings (unless otherwise stated) are presented/discussed in detail.”
Comment 16:
Section 3.2: As mentioned above, only some of the conditions are reported for this
analysis, so some text referring to the other ones would be necessary. The maps don’t
seem to show any discernible geographical pattern, but the data are aggregated from
monthly series into a three-year series. It would be interesting to know if there are any
changes to the geographical pattern shown over time. This would require analysing
the data in a different way, so if this is not possible it should at least be discussed.
Response 16:
As mentioned above (see Response 15), we decided to focus on six conditions
believed to be those most likely influenced by the internal or external environment, as
based on previous published literature. However, county-level data (total number
slaughtered between 01 January 2011 and 31 December 2013; total counts of each
conditions; and prevalence rates of all 16 conditions, per 10,000 slaughtered), are
available in File 1 (Sheet b) of the electronic supplementary material (ESM). We have
now referred readers to this file in the main text of our paper (lines 281-283).
Therefore, we don’t believe that it’s necessary to include additional text on the
conditions not mentioned in this section.
As you say, the graphs don’t seem to show any discernible geographical pattern.
However, on lines 488-502, we have highlighted some potential explanations for the
observed county-level differences. It was the batch-level data (as opposed to the
monthly data) that were aggregated to produce the distribution maps and county-level
dataset (ESM. File 1, Sheet b), as only the batch-level data enabled us to
geographically locate the farms. Therefore, it is not possible to analyse potential long-
term changes to county-level prevalence rates, beyond 2011-2013. As there is no real
basis for hypothesising changes to “indiscernible geographical patterns”, we do not
feel that a discussion on this would add to our manuscript in any way.
Comment 17:
Lines 277-282: The decision to exclude a large number of observations for these two
conditions seems arbitrary. What were the reasons for these increases? It would be
better if this was explained to allow the reader to assess if there was any potential
relationship with weather patterns.
Response 17:
As stated on lines 305-308, our decision to exclude data (recorded before January
2006) from the abnormal colour/fever series, and data (recorded before September
2009) from the trauma (bruising/fractures) series, prior to detrending, was based on:
(i) the subsequent large increase in prevalence rates; and (ii) subsequent change in
long-term trends. Rather than split the series and, essentially, analyse two separate
series for each condition, we decided to focus our attention on the most recent
observations (i.e. post-December 2005 for abnormal colour/fever and post-September
2009 for bruising/fractures). The broiler industry is quite fast-moving; therefore, we
considered the more recent changes to be more likely to reflect the types of issues that
are relevant today. Further, the data has not been excluded from ESM File 1 (Sheet a),
where readers can access the full time-series. The reasons for the large increases are
not clear, but there were no corresponding changes in weather factors at the time of
these increases. This is now stated on lines 308-311.
Comment 18:
Lines 283-292/293-297/298-305: As mentioned earlier, an explanation is required for
the conditions that are not mentioned in these paragraphs.
Response 18:
As suggested, we have included text on lines 321-323 and lines 337-343, which refer
to the other conditions not previously mentioned.
Comment 19:
Line 294: regular 12-months intervals?
Response 19:
This has now been changed to “…regular 12-month intervals” (now line 325).
Comment 20:
Section 3.4: Again only the results for some of the conditions are reported. This
should be explained and justified. As discussed in the methodology section, this
section may need to be re-written after reanalysing the data.
Response 20:
As mentioned in Response 15, table 3 reports the correlation coefficients for all 144
relationships that were tested (i.e. 16 conditions x 3 weather variables x 3 lags). As
now stated on lines 268-269, “Due to the large number of analyses that were carried
out … only the most noteworthy findings … are presented/discussed in detail”. We do
not believe that it’s necessary to write out all the correlation coefficients in the main
text, when they are already presented in table 3. As discussed in the methodology
section (see Response 8), we do not believe that it is necessary to reanalyse the data.
Discussion
Comment 21:
This section may need to be revised after reanalysing the data, however, I would urge
the authors to be cautious regarding any inferences they make from their analyses.
The results show an association between some conditions and temperature, for
example ascites, but this doesn’t necessarily imply causality. Ascites in broilers is
related to pulmonary arterial hypertension, a multifactorial syndrome involving
several causes. Although temperature may be important in the epidemiology of this
condition, other factors cannot be discounted, for example poor ventilation, poor air
quality or the presence of pathogens (see Wideman et al., 2013. Poultry Science,
Volume: 92 Issue: 1 Pages: 64-83). It is also not clear if temperature would be a direct
or indirect cause (e.g. when cold outside some producers may reduce ventilation to
keep warm air in the poultry houses, which impacts the quality of the air). The authors
should avoid oversimplifying the relationship between the condition and the
temperature and provide more information about other important risk factors.
Response 21:
As noted above (see Response 8), we did not believe that it was necessary to
reanalyse the data. Of course we understand that an association between two factors
does not necessarily imply causality, which is why we have been very careful
(throughout the Discussion section) to interpret and discuss our observational findings
in relation to findings from previous experimental work that has been published in
this area. The focus of our paper is, primarily, how prevalence rates of health and
welfare conditions in broilers change with weather; therefore, this is also the focus of
our Discussion section. However, we did not discount other factors. Indeed, the
paragraph on lines 414-431 begins with: “Although it is widely accepted that
prolonged cold exposure is a major trigger of ascites in broilers, we must not discount
other (non-climatic) factors that may have confounded the associations reported
herein”. In this paragraph, we mention growth rate, ventilation, and feed consumption.
At the end of this paragraph, we highlight that weather may be driving the seasonal
patterns in ascites prevalence “either directly or indirectly (or both)” (line 431).
In light of your comment, however, we have added to/amended this paragraph as
follows (lines 422-429):
“To our knowledge, there is no evidence that house humidity affects the incidence of
ascites. However, although cold exposure is considered to be a more significant
trigger of ascites than inadequate ventilation [66], several reports have attributed
outbreaks of ascites to poor air quality, poor ventilation , and to the presence of
pathogens (reviewed by [Wideman et al., 2013]); all of which could result from
farmers having reduced the ventilation in broiler houses to prevent adverse cold
effects and limit heating costs in the winter. On the other hand, broilers reared in cold
conditions tend to consume more feed [67], which intensifies the birds’ oxygen
requirements and can lead to ascites [66]”.
At several other points in the Discussion, we emphasise that (e.g. line 488) “weather
cannot explain all variation in condition PRs”. As stated in Response 11, we have also
included an additional paragraph (lines 503-513), which begins: “Clearly then,
weather is not the only factor associated with condemnation rates. Even ascites PRs,
which showed clear seasonal patterns and strong associations with weather, also
demonstrated a long-term trend that could not be explained by weather”.
Comment 22:
Lines 343-345: Readers cannot judge if this is the case due to the information in the
results’ section being limited to some conditions only. It is therefore assumed that the
association does not exist for the other conditions, so this sentence may need to be
revised.
Response 22:
As mentioned above, table 3 presents the correlation coefficients for all tested
associations between condition prevalence rates and weather variables at 0, -1, and -2
month lags, so readers can clearly see where (linear) associations do and do not exist.
We do not state, on the lines that you have referred to (now lines 381-383), that
changes in weather (specifically, maximum temperature and days of air frost) were
associated with changes in the prevalence of all health and welfare conditions but,
rather, several conditions. We then go on to discuss the most noteworthy.
Comment 23:
Lines 373-375: Oversimplification, as mentioned above.
Response 23:
We do not believe that the text here (now lines 411-413) is oversimplified. We have
summarised the findings of the referenced studies. For example, Özkan et al. [65,
p.982] stated “The significant reduction in ascites mortality by such a slight heating
suggests the practical importance of this approach”. Further, as mentioned above, we
then continue to discuss other (non-climatic) factors that may have confounded our
results.
Comment 24:
Lines 437-438: The difference of two degrees could just as easily be explained by the
different study population.
Response 24:
The different study population has been added as a potential explanation on lines 479-
480.
Comment 25:
Lines 457-459: This could also be explained by different rates of fractures caused by
plant equipment during processing (especially wing fractures).
Response 25:
We have added “discrepancies … in the slaughter line environment of different
establishments” to this sentence (now lines 499-501).
Comment 26:
Lines 472-480: It would be important to also include a discussion about the
aggregation from plant level to national level for some of the analyses.
Response 26:
As noted above (see Response 8), we have included a discussion about the reliability
of data across GB slaughterhouses and have emphasised that “future work will
account for variability between slaughterhouses as well as variability at the farm-
level” (lines 525-526). We have also highlighted that “Future efforts should focus on
modelling associations between daily PRs at slaughter … and daily fluctuations in
temperature, at a more local level” (lines 538-541).
Response to Reviewer: 2
Dear Reviewer,
Thank you for taking the time to review our paper. We were absolutely delighted to receive
such positive feedback, and we greatly appreciate your comments. We have responded to
each of your comments below and, where possible, have made the advised changes to the
manuscript.
Thank you again.
With kind regards,
Chérie Part
___________________________________________________________________________
Comment 1:
I don't often say this, but this is an excellent paper and in my opinion could be
accepted without revision. It is extremely well written, on an important topic, and
represents a very comprehensive survey of broiler mortality and health conditions in
the UK, as related to several environmental variables. The authors are very careful to
place their work in the context of other studies and to clarify additional factors (both
national and regional) that could have affected outcomes. Some of the results are not
too surprising (e.g. the relationship between colder weather and the incidence of
ascites), but the size of the data set is very impressive and makes a compelling case.
This may not be possible because of the large scale of this study (and the fact that the
data were collected at the plant), but it would have been useful to have additional
information about the characteristics of the farms involved, for comparative purposes
for those of us who do similar research (or are involved in broiler production) outside
the UK. Might it be possible to add information about the mean/median and ranges
among these farms for things like: 1) flock size per house; 2) stocking density; 3) age
at slaughter; 4) transport distance to plant; also breed/strains represented in the flocks.
I was able to obtain some piecemeal pictures from the paper (e.g. paragraph beginning
l. 446; also info is provided in methods on % production in different systems), but it
would have been nice to have information in the methods that allowed one to form an
overall picture of the variety within the flocks/management (I am not suggesting,
however, that the authors try to systematically include these variables in their models,
just to provide them for descriptive purposes)
Response 1:
Thank you for your positive feedback. As suggested, we have added, whatever
descriptive information we can, to Section 2.1.1.3 as follows (lines 154-162):
“The total number of chickens slaughtered/processed in each batch ranged from 2 to
97,696 (median = 5,535 birds). The median age at slaughter was 39 days (interquartile
range = 35-45 days). Chickens reared in intensive indoor systems constituted the large
majority (>96%) of those slaughtered, with considerably fewer broilers reared in
extensive indoor (0.07%), free-range (2.71%), organic (0.45%) and ‘other’ systems
(0.36%). Most broilers (61.4% of those slaughtered) had been produced at an on-farm
stocking density of 33-39 kg/m2, with fewer (21.12%) at a lower stocking density (up
to 33 kg/m2), and considerably fewer (0.55%) at a higher density (39-42 kg/m2). The
stocking density was unknown for 16.93% of broilers slaughtered.”
Unfortunately, it was not possible to provide descriptive information on the flock size
per house as many batches entering the plants were comprised of broilers from
numerous different houses on the same farm, and the proportion from each house was
unknown. We have, however, provided the median and range of batch size (see
above). We were unable to provide information on the transport distance from farm to
slaughter, as the FSA did not share geographic information for each slaughterhouse
(only postcode information for each farm). Our data sharing agreement with the Food
Standards Agency states that we must not publish any information based on fewer
than five individuals, holdings, or businesses. Therefore, it was not possible to
provide the proportion of breeds/strains represented in the batches at this stage.
Comment 2:
l. 74 it would be helpful to expand this a bit to indicate why - I presume it is because
keeping animals at high stocking densities contributes to heat generation and also
(perhaps) makes it more difficult for them to use behavioural methods of
thermoregulation?
Response 2:
Indeed, reducing stocking density is thought to be important in mitigating the effects
of climate change with regards to on-farm heat stress mortalities (e.g. see [10]).
Unfortunately, we were not able to include on-farm mortality as a potential outcome
in our study. Therefore, following on from the paragraph above (lines 58-68), and
formulating the rationale for our study, the points that we really wanted to emphasise
here were: (i) today’s broiler houses may not provide as much protection from
meteorological conditions as might be assumed; and (ii) with regard to climate change
impact assessment and adaptation research in livestock production, we should be
focussing more attention on intensive indoor systems.
Comment 3:
l. 357 - do UK producers heat their houses in the winter? That isn't common in some
other areas of the world (like the US and Latin America) - the problem is not usually
cold temperatures, it is dealing with heat stress in the summer months.
Response 3:
Yes, as it is particularly important to maintain tight control over indoor temperatures
at the start of life, there are a variety of heating systems in place in UK poultry
houses, from liquid petroleum gas (LPG) systems to wood-fuelled heating with
underfloor systems. This is highlighted in a brief article by Graham (2014) in Farmers
Weekly (http://www.fwi.co.uk/poultr/best-practice-for-heating-poultry-sheds-in-
winter.htm).
pendix C
ments on “Prevalence rates of health and welfare conditions in broiler chickens change with
ther in a temperate climate”
nk you for considering my comments to the previous draft of the paper. I understand that
alysing the data would require a considerable shift in the focus for this document and I understand
a more sophisticated assessment of the data is already planned for the near future. I am satisfied
the modifications made to the text addressing most of my concerns. However, there are a few
ts that, in my opinion, require further clarification, as described below:
main concern I have after reading the responses is about the reliability of the data supplied by the
the response to comment 12 mentions that “some plants did not contribute to the dataset with
ect to all conditions”. Similarly, the reasons for excluding some data mentioned in response 17 imply
more recent data are more accurate than older data. If more recent data are considered more
rate, that would apply to all conditions and not just the two mentioned in this section. For this
icular issue, looking at the raw data provided in the excel spreadsheet it seems plausible that the
eases in the prevalence rates could be a result of changes in procedures in the MHS, as these
nges in rates coincide with the start of recording of other conditions (AnteMortemRejects for
ormal colour and Other Farm for Trauma/Bruising). If this is the case, it should not be too
plicated to find from the FSA (e.g. in older versions of the MHS Manual for inspectors) what changed
have a better justification for excluding the observations for these two conditions. If no changes in
edures were implemented and no apparent reason for the jump in prevalence rates can be found
makes me question the reliability of the dataset, which is something that should be mentioned in
discussion section of the paper. If the consensus is that more recent data are more reliable, I would
sider excluding earlier data from the analysis for all the variables, not just two. I would nevertheless
mmend consulting with the FSA about these issues to try to confirm the reliability of the data and
efore the results of the analysis. Some text should then be included in the discussion explaining
ther any shortcomings have been identified in the data and their potential impact in the results.
er minor issues are:
he response to my question about stocking density provides me with an understanding of how it was
ulated, however I would not call this parameter stocking density, as this is a farm level attribute. I
est using a different term (monthly throughput?) and then mentioning that it could be a proxy for
king density at farm level. The use of stocking density is misleading in my opinion.
your response 15 you provide an explanation of the reason why you focused on six conditions in
ion 3.2. I think this rationale should be included in the paper, either in the Methods section or under
ion 3.2.
astly, in your response to my comment 8 you state: Controlling for the effect of slaughterhouse,
out also controlling for the effect of farm/production factors (which was not possible given the level
etail in the monthly dataset), would lead to uninterpretable estimates of the “slaughterhouse effect”.
mentioned above, I don’t expect the data to be reanalysed, but just to be clear: I didn’t expect the
ghterhouse effect to be quantified; I just wanted to control such effect to obtain unbiased estimates
he key variables under study. This can be achieved adding slaughterhouse as a random effect to the
el. You also state that you “would expect the weather experienced on-farm (i.e. during rearing) to
e more effect on the prevalence of conditions than the weather experienced at the slaughterhouse
tion”. Without controlling for the slaughterhouse effect in the analysis this hypothesis cannot be
fied, as some of the variation that you attribute to the weather on-farm may arise from the abattoir.
st that this aspect is addressed in your future work.
Appendix D
Manuscript ID: RSOS-160197
Manuscript title: Prevalence rates of health and welfare conditions in broiler chickens
change with weather in a temperate climate.
Dear Reviewer,
Thank you for considering our responses to your comments and our amendments to the
previous draft of the paper. We greatly appreciate your feedback, and understand that you
still have some concerns about the monthly dataset. We have responded to each of your
comments below and have made the advised changes to the manuscript.
Thank you so much for your thoughtful consideration of our paper.
With best wishes,
Chérie Part
___________________________________________________________________________
Main comment:
The main concern I have after reading the responses is about the reliability of the data
supplied by the FSA: the response to comment 12 mentions that “some plants did not
contribute to the dataset with respect to all conditions”. Similarly, the reasons for
excluding some data mentioned in response 17 imply that more recent data are more
accurate than older data. If more recent data are considered more accurate, that would
apply to all conditions and not just the two mentioned in this section. For this
particular issue, looking at the raw data provided in the excel spreadsheet it seems
plausible that the increases in the prevalence rates could be a result of changes in
procedures in the MHS, as these changes in rates coincide with the start of recording
of other conditions (AnteMortemRejects for Abnormal colour and Other Farm for
Trauma/Bruising). If this is the case, it should not be too complicated to find from the
FSA (e.g. in older versions of the MHS Manual for inspectors) what changed and
have a better justification for excluding the observations for these two conditions. If
no changes in procedures were implemented and no apparent reason for the jump in
prevalence rates can be found this makes me question the reliability of the dataset,
which is something that should be mentioned in the discussion section of the paper. If
the consensus is that more recent data are more reliable, I would consider excluding
earlier data from the analysis for all the variables, not just two. I would nevertheless
recommend consulting with the FSA about these issues to try to confirm the reliability
of the data and therefore the results of the analysis. Some text should then be included
in the discussion explaining whether any shortcomings have been identified in the
data and their potential impact in the results.
Response:
I have consulted with the FSA, and have looked into potential changes in MHS
procedures that could explain the large increases in abnormal colour/fever prevalence
rates (PRs) during January 2006, and in bruising/fractures PRs during
August/September 2009. Standardisation of the recording of these two conditions
across GB slaughterhouses most likely accounts for the observed increases. Haslam et
al. [84] found that, prior to 2006, abnormal colour/fever was classified under different
labels in different slaughterhouses; whereas, conditions such as DOA and ascites were
consistently classified similarly between plants. ‘Septicaemia/ toxaemia’ was used as
a classification label in some slaughterhouses between January 2003 and December
2005. However, this label was scrapped in January 2006, when the large increase in
abnormal colour/fever prevalence rates was observed. Thus, it appears that there was
a push to standardise the recording of this condition at the time of the increase.
Similarly, according to a colleague at FSA, the rise in bruising/fracture cases could be
explained by a strong focus on this condition around the time that broiler reporting
came about in the UK. In light of this, we have further justified our exclusion of
abnormal colour/fever data (predating January 2006) and bruising/fracture data
(predating September 2009) on lines 311-314.
Regarding the other conditions, we do not feel that it is necessary to exclude earlier
data from the analyses as there are no sound reasons to presume that recent data are
more accurate than older data. Of course, there are likely to have been gradual
improvements in post-mortem inspections and MHS procedures over time; however,
there are no obvious cut-off points at which to exclude data from the PR time-series
of other conditions. Further, detrending the monthly PR time-series was a purposeful
attempt to isolate seasonal patterns from the potential effects of other variables, such
as gradual improvements in the detection and recording of conditions over time (as
stated on lines 508-511).
I raised the issue concerning my response to comment 12 (i.e. “some plants did not
contribute to the dataset with respect to all conditions”) with the FSA. They have said
that cellulitis, for example, which was reported by relatively few plants, is linked to
farming issues and, so, is a condition that is not necessarily seen in all flocks. The
relatively small number of plants that reported cellulitis, as compared to other
conditions (such as DOA), may reflect inadequate reporting of this condition by some
plants, or may indeed reflect the real picture (i.e. some farms experienced a higher
rate of this condition than other farms). As suggested, we have included an additional
paragraph in the discussion section to explain this potential shortcoming in the
monthly dataset and the potential impact on the results (see lines 534-547).
Minor comments:
Comment 1
The response to my question about stocking density provides me with an
understanding of how it was calculated, however I would not call this parameter
stocking density, as this is a farm level attribute. I suggest using a different term
(monthly throughput?) and then mentioning that it could be a proxy for stocking
density at farm level. The use of stocking density is misleading in my opinion.
Response 1
We agree. We have changed the term on line 257 and have mentioned that it was used
as a crude proxy for on-farm stocking density.
Comment 2
In your response 15 you provide an explanation of the reason why you focused on six
conditions in section 3.2. I think this rationale should be included in the paper, either
in the Methods section or under section 3.2.
Response 2
We have now included this rationale in section 3.2 (lines 280-281).
Comment 3
Lastly, in your response to my comment 8 you state: Controlling for the effect of
slaughterhouse, without also controlling for the effect of farm/production factors
(which was not possible given the level of detail in the monthly dataset), would lead to
uninterpretable estimates of the “slaughterhouse effect”. As I mentioned above, I
don’t expect the data to be reanalysed, but just to be clear: I didn’t expect the
slaughterhouse effect to be quantified; I just wanted to control such effect to obtain
unbiased estimates of the key variables under study. This can be achieved adding
slaughterhouse as a random effect to the model. You also state that you “would expect
the weather experienced on-farm (i.e. during rearing) to have more effect on the
prevalence of conditions than the weather experienced at the slaughterhouse
location”. Without controlling for the slaughterhouse effect in the analysis this
hypothesis cannot be verified, as some of the variation that you attribute to the
weather on-farm may arise from the abattoir. I trust that this aspect is addressed in
your future work.
Response 3
We do now understand that you did not expect the slaughterhouse effect to be
quantified but, rather, controlled for in the analyses. The multilevel model, which we
are currently developing, will enable us to control for the effects of farm and
slaughterhouse, but will also enable us to quantify the effects, which we can then
compare across conditions. We will also ensure that the slaughterhouse effect is
controlled for in the distributed lag model, which we are developing to further explore
the relationships between weather and condition PRs. We would like to thank you for
your input on this.
Society Open
