Yes, it turns: experimental evidence of pearl rotation during
its formation
Yannick Gueguen, Yann Czorlich, Max Mastail, Bruno Le Tohic, Didier Defay, Pierre
Lyonnard, Damien Marigliano, Jean-Pierre Gauthier, Hubert Bari , Cedrik Lo, Sébastien
Chabrier and Gilles Le Moullac
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150144.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150144
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 April 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 1 June 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 June 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal before peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150144.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Julyan Cartwright)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an excellent, needed, and very interesting study; I recommend its publication.
I have just a few comments that the authors should address before publication.
Firstly, as pointed out in the previous work on pearl rotation, there is a previous experimental
study, albeit a very preliminary one, that appeared in the journal Te Reko Parau, Le journal des
Perliculteurs, in 2005. This surely ought to be acknowledged by the authors. I presume that the
authors know of this work -perhaps even were involved?- since it took place in French Polynesia.
So the authors should not write such things as "no observation of such a movement has ever been
described". They should instead be clear that their study is much more advanced than that earlier
one. A discussion of pearl rotation is also found in Hubert Bari's recent book, and he is an author
of this work, so why is his book not mentioned?
Secondly, I don't understand this paragraph: "According to the hypothesis of Catwright et al. [14]
concerning rotation induced by pearl growth, steps of round pearls would not be necessarily
randomly oriented across its surface but could globally share a direction varying over time.
Rotation in an irregular way could favour homogeneity of deposits on nucleus in case of
differential functioning of epithelial cells of pearl sac, creating a round pearl. Here, we showed
that even for a round pearl, a movement in several successive directions was recorded at the
pearl scale (Figure 4C-F)." The hypothesis in that paper was precisely this: that for a spherical
pearl the movement would be random, while for a pearl with rings the movements would be
with a single rotation axis. This is consistent with what is observed and shown in fig 4.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Major modifications :
3
The major point is the start point of this study : it is not true that the rotation of the nucleated
pearl inside the oyster has ever been described. It has been described previously in the following
article :
« La perle tourne dans la poche [The pearl turns in its pouch] Te Reko Parau, Le journal des
Perliculteurs; Service de la Perliculture: Polynes´ie Française; no. 18, p.13, September 2005. »
It has also been described in Cartwright JH, Checa AG, Rousseau M. Langmuir. 2013 Jul
2;29(26):8370-6.
The manuscript and the abstract have to be modified taking in account the both previous works.
For a better understanding it is important to specify that the end of the pearl formation is the step
of harvesting included in the pearl culture process.
‘Nature’s ability to generate so amazingly complex structures like a pearl has delivered one of its
secret.’ I disagree with the authors because the authors should be more precise in the discussion.
What is the reason why pearls do rotate in the pearl bag ? The link between the observed rotation
and the source of this movement should be explained.
Genrally the results and the figures are poorly explained and exploited for a better
understanding of the results obtained by this experimentation.
Minor modifications :
- p.2 line 45 : It is not exact that the pearl formation is a response to an injury to the mantle
tissue. Not always, it is a protection against an agression or an intrusion. The pearl formation is
the possibility for the oyster to cover with mother-of-pearl and to isolate a foreign body.
- p.2 line 48 : the authors should cite also the work of Wada K. such as ‘Wada K.,
Formation and quality of pearls. J. Gemmological Soc. Jpn, 20, 47-62, 1999.’ For example.
- p.2 line 50 : it is to notice that in China there are also nucleated pearls in freshwater
mussels.
- p.2 line 60 : it could be interesting to specify the ‘official’ nacre thickness around the
nucleus required for exportation of pearls from French Polynesia.
- P.2 line 63 : it is necessary to separate the references adressed to the shell and the one
adressed to pearls. Authors should also cite the work on nacre formation of Rousseau et al.,
Checa et al, Cartwright et al and Nudelmann et al.
The reference Finnemore et al 2012 is more a paper dedicated to biomimetic materials . What is
the relation to pearl formation ?
- P.2 line 65 : the formation of defects should be referenced with the ref 14.
- The figure 1 is poorly exploited. More details should be given on the observations of the
growth mechanism of nacre layers at the surface of the pearl.
- P.2 line 73 : ‘Although these observations strongly suggest nucleated pearl rotation, no
observation of such a movement has ever been described or characterised. It is surprising, but the
theory of rotation has been usually ignored in the research carried out on pearls.’ It is not true,
because it has been described in Cartwright et al (ref 14).
- P.3 line 84 : « La perle tourne dans la poche [The pearl turns in its pouch] Te Reko Parau,
Le journal des Perliculteurs; Service de la Perliculture: Polynes´ie Française; no. 18, p.13,
September 2005. » The authors should modulate their affirmation in regard to this first
publication of experimental evidence of pearl rotation.
- P.6 line 182 : the unsolved question is more an experimentally directly unobserved
question.
- P.6 line 186 : the authors should explain why they choose to measure the magnetism
form the first to the 50th day after the grafting. Does it correspond to something specific form the
biological point of view or from the pearl culture point of view ?
- At the end of their discussion the authors have to say if their findings are in accordance
with the work of Cartwright et al 2013 or not.
4
They bring the experimental evidence of what Cartwright et al were able to demonstrate before.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150144)
22-May-2015
Dear Professor GUEGUEN,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Yes, it turns : experimental evidence of pearl rotation
during its formation") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise
your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 14-Jun-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
5
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150144)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-150144.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
6
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have taken in account the comments of the both reviewers.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150144.R1)
15-Jun-2015
Dear Professor GUEGUEN,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Yes, it turns : experimental evidence of
pearl rotation during its formation" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working days. Please
contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Emilie Aime
emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
hank you very much for your comments and careful review of our manuscript entitled “Yes, it turns:
xperimental evidence of pearl rotation during its formation” by Y. Gueguen et al. (MS ID # RSOS-
50144).
lease find here a revised version of the manuscript in which we have taken into account all
ommentaries from the reviewers. The modified part and added text are in red. We have also
ddressed every question in a point-by-point manner (see below).
Hoping this revised version of the manuscript will reach the standards for the Royal Society Open
cience, we thank you in advance for considering our work for publication.
With best regards,
Yannick Gueguen
*****************************************************
Point by point response to the “Comments to Author:”
eviewer: 1
his is an excellent, needed, and very interesting study; I recommend its
ublication.
hank you for your compliment.
have just a few comments that the authors should address before publication.
irstly, as pointed out in the previous work on pearl rotation, there is a previous
xperimental study, albeit a very preliminary one, that appeared in the journal Te
eko Parau, Le journal des Perliculteurs, in 2005. This surely ought to be
cknowledged by the authors. I presume that the authors know of this work -perhaps
ven were involved?- since it took place in French Polynesia. So the authors should
ot write such things as "no observation of such a movement has ever been
escribed". They should instead be clear that their study is much more advanced
han that earlier one. A discussion of pearl rotation is also found in Hubert
ari's recent book, and he is an author of this work, so why is his book not
entioned?
hank you for your precision. Yes, you knew this very preliminary work based on the
ray observations of only one oyster at 2 different times 17 months after the
rafting. One of the authors was involved in it. We agree we the reviewer 1 (and
he 2) and we are now more accurate in our text. We do not say anymore that “we
bserve, for the first, the movement” but we say that “we experimentally
emonstrate and characterize the pearl rotation”. “Observation” has been changed by
experimental demonstration” in the summary part and this statement has been
orrected all along the manuscript. Several works mentioned a possible rotation.
he local magazine for pearl farmer is now mentioned. However, our work is the
irst that demonstrates and quantifies the pearl movement.
econdly, I don't understand this paragraph: "According to the hypothesis of
atwright et al. [14] concerning rotation induced by pearl growth, steps of round
earls would not be necessarily randomly oriented across its surface but could
lobally share a direction varying over time. Rotation in an irregular way could
avour homogeneity of deposits on nucleus in case of differential functioning of
pithelial cells of pearl sac, creating a round pearl. Here, we showed that even
or a round pearl, a movement in several successive directions was recorded at the
earl scale (Figure 4C-F)." The hypothesis in that paper was precisely this: that
or a spherical pearl the movement would be random, while for a pearl with rings
he movements would be with a single rotation axis. This is consistent with what is
bserved and shown in fig 4.
o clarify our remarks, the text was modified as follow: “Rotation in an irregular
ay could favour the homogeneity of deposits on nucleus creating a round pearl.
ere, we experimentally showed that the movement of a round pearl is done in
andom, while for a pearl with rings movements would be with a single rotation
xis. This is consistent with our observations. Our results are in accordance with
he work of Cartwright et al 2013 bringing the experimental evidence of its
heoretical model.”
eviewer: 2
ajor modifications:
he major point is the start point of this study : it is not true that the rotation
f the nucleated pearl inside the oyster has ever been described. It has been
escribed previously in the following article :
La perle tourne dans la poche [The pearl turns in its pouch] Te Reko Parau, Le
ournal des Perliculteurs; Service de la Perliculture: Polynes´ie Française; no. 18,
.13, September 2005. »
t has also been described in Cartwright JH, Checa AG, Rousseau M. Langmuir. 2013
ul 2;29(26):8370-6.
he manuscript and the abstract have to be modified taking in account the both
revious works.
hank you for your comment. As already mentioned for reviewer 1, we knew this very
reliminary work (in the Te Reko Parau magazine). We agree we the reviewer and we
re now more accurate in our text: we did say anymore that “we observe for the
irst the movement” but we say that “we demonstrate and characterize the pearl
otation”. “Observation” has been changed by “experimentally demonstration” in the
ummary part and this statement has been corrected all along the manuscript.
or a better understanding it is important to specify that the end of the pearl
ormation is the step of harvesting included in the pearl culture process.
t has been done in the introduction and conclusion parts of the manuscript.
Nature’s ability to generate so amazingly complex structures like a pearl has
elivered one of its secret.’ I disagree with the authors because the authors
hould be more precise in the discussion. What is the reason why pearls do rotate
n the pearl bag ? The link between the observed rotation and the source of this
ovement should be explained.
he idea here was to say that the continuous experimental observation and
uantification of the pearl movement inside the oyster was already a breakthrough
n understanding the pearl formation. The possible explanation of the movement is
iscussed in the paper based on the results of Cartwright J-H-E, Checa A-G,
ousseau M. 2013 - Pearls are self-organized natural ratchets. Langmuir 29(26),
370-8376. However, the experimental demonstration of the source of the movement of
he pearl is another experimentally complex job that will take a lot of time.
enrally the results and the figures are poorly explained and exploited for a
etter understanding of the results obtained by this experimentation.
e hope that the revised paper better corresponds to the expectations of the
eviewer. In addition, many details could be found in the experimental
upplementary information. Our objective here is to produce a paper focused on the
ain result.
inor modifications :
p.2 line 45 : It is not exact that the pearl formation is a response to an
njury to the mantle tissue. Not always, it is a protection against an agression or
n intrusion. The pearl formation is the possibility for the oyster to cover with
other-of-pearl and to isolate a foreign body.
he correction has been done.
p.2 line 48 : the authors should cite also the work of Wada K. such as
Wada K., Formation and quality of pearls. J. Gemmological Soc. Jpn, 20, 47-62,
999.’ For example.
s requested, the citation has been added.
p.2 line 50 : it is to notice that in China there are also nucleated pearls
n freshwater mussels.
K thank you. The text is correct because we say : “usually grown …”
hickness around the nucleus required for exportation of pearls from French
olynesia.
he correction has been done. We added the following sentence: “the minimum nacre
hickness allowed for marketing is 0.8 mm”.
P.2 line 63 : it is necessary to separate the references adressed to the
hell and the one adressed to pearls. Authors should also cite the work on nacre
ormation of Rousseau et al., Checa et al, Cartwright et al and Nudelmann et al.
he reference Finnemore et al 2012 is more a paper dedicated to biomimetic
aterials . What is the relation to pearl formation ?
ll the modifications requested by the reviewer have been done. The references
ddressed to the shell have been separated from the ones from the pearls. In
ddition, the references Rousseau et al., Checa et al, and Nudelmann et al. have
een added and the reference’s part ; Finnemore et al 2012 have been suppressed.
P.2 line 65: the formation of defects should be referenced with the ref 14.
he reference has been added.
The figure 1 is poorly exploited. More details should be given on the
bservations of the growth mechanism of nacre layers at the surface of the pearl.
eferences to figure 1 have been added at several places in the manuscript. In
ddition, information concerning the growth mechanism of nacre layers has been
dded in the introduction part with reference to figure 1.
P.2 line 73 : ‘Although these observations strongly suggest nucleated pearl
otation, no observation of such a movement has ever been described or
haracterised. It is surprising, but the theory of rotation has been usually
gnored in the research carried out on pearls.’ It is not true, because it has been
escribed in Cartwright et al (ref 14).
he correction has been done. The first sentence has been modified and the second
eleted.
P.3 line 84 : « La perle tourne dans la poche [The pearl turns in its
ouch] Te Reko Parau, Le journal des Perliculteurs; Service de la Perliculture:
olynes´ie Française; no. 18, p.13, September 2005. » The authors should modulate
heir affirmation in regard to this first publication of experimental evidence of
earl rotation.
he correction has been done. In addition, the observation described in the local
agazine for pearl farmer is now mentioned.
P.6 line 182 : the unsolved question is more an experimentally directly
nobserved question.
he correction has been done.
P.6 line 186 : the authors should explain why they choose to measure the
agnetism form the first to the 50th day after the grafting. Does it correspond to
omething specific form the biological point of view or from the pearl culture
oint of view ?
his time window corresponds to the time period necessary for the establishment of
he pearl sac. This statement already mentioned at the end of the last paragraph of
he results and discussion section has been added at this place also.
At the end of their discussion the authors have to say if their findings
re in accordance with the work of Cartwright et al 2013 or not.
hey bring the experimental evidence of what Cartwright et al were able to
emonstrate before.
his information is now is present. We added the following text in the discussion
ection of the manuscript: “Rotation in an irregular way could favour homogeneity
f deposits on nucleus creating a round pearl. Here, we experimentally showed that
he movement of a round pearl is done in several successive directions (Figure 4 C-
), thereby validating the hypothesis of Cartwright et al. (14) which said that for
spherical bead, the movement would be random, while for a pearl with rings (
igure 1C-D-F), movements would be with a single rotation axis (Figure 4A-D). This
s consistent with our observations. Our results are in accordance with the work of
artwright et al 2013 bringing the experimental evidence of its theoretical model.”
Society Open
