Significance and popularity in music production
Bernardo Monechi, Pietro Gravino, Vito D. P. Servedio, Francesca Tria and Vittorio Loreto
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170433.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170433
Review timeline
Original submission: 4 May 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 15 June 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 16 June 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170433.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The paper is a nice and comprehensive study of the evolution of a particular folksonomy.
I suggest the author to mention the results on hypergraphs sketched in
Random Hypergraphs and their applications, G. Ghoshal, V. Zlatic, G. Caldarelli, M.E.J.
Newman, Physical Review E 79, 066118 (2009) and for a more general treatment Hypernetworks
in the Science of Complex Systems by Jeffrey Johnson
World Scientific 2014
As for the adjacent possible idea, its application in the form a generative model of Polya urns is
referred to a paper of the same authors. Also in this case there is quite a number of similar
approaches. We just mention Complex Weighted Networks as Randomly Reinforced Urn
Process G. Caldarelli, A. Chessa, I. Crimaldi, F. Pammolli Physical Review E 87, 020106(R) (2013)
only for the specific relation holding between Polya urns and Rich get richer mechanism. But in
general all of them can be simply considered as a different kind of Yule processes.
The article would certainly benefit from an introduction where all these points are discussed and
presented to the reader in the spirit of Mitzenmacher paper
A brief history of generative models for power law and lognormal distributions. Internet
Mathematics 1, 226–251 (2003).
Passing to the analysis, the metrics introduced to assess the feature of the corpus of music
production are certainly interesting. I find necessary to add a brief description of a null case
against which one can evaluate the significance of the results obtained.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript entitled "Significance and Popularity in Music Production" by Monechi et al
describes the evolution of musical albums in terms of folksonomic tags. Inspired by Kauffman's
3
writing on the adjacent possible, they introduce a set of observables that describe how music
explores new themes. As a main result, the authors are able to identify some topological
conditions that seem to be indicative of cultural significance and/or popularity. Overall, the
paper presents a novel and statistically sound dynamic network analysis approach to the
important question of how influential new trends emerge in socio-economic systems. A weaker
point of the paper is that the authors, therefore, introduce a sometimes overwhelming number of
new observables. For some of them it is not really clear whether they are indeed necessary, or to
which extent they are confounded by other, more commonly known network characteristics.
However, I'm more than sure that the authors can address these concerns in a revised version and
recommend publication of this manuscript after minor revisions. In particular, the following
comments might be of interest to the authors.
-) As the authors briefly state in the "Data" section, such music databases contain often several
releases of th same album, in particular of the most influential ones. How have the authors dealt
with multiple releases?
-) The authors could make their results even stronger, if they compare their findings to results
obtained by replacing the Louvain community detection algorithm by a different clustering
method, such as Infomap, OSLOM, LDA, or other related approaches.
-) At some places, it seems that results are reported in the data section. For instance, the
correlation among the variables introduced, last paragraph in the data section, is maybe better
placed in the results section.
-) Speaking of which, I think Figure 3 needs to be a bit improved and expanded. It would be
much easier for the reader if the names of the variables are given in the rows. In addition, this is a
good place to discuss how these new measures relate to commonly known network measures,
such as in-degree, out-degree, clustering coefficient, betweenness centrality, eigenvector/alpha
centrality, or PageRank. Maybe it even turns out that some of the new variables are very similar
to one of those and the number of newly introduced ones can therefore be reduced...
-) I haven't found a description of how many albums are contained in the categories (popular,
highly popular, etc). However, for the prediction of the album category it might be informative to
additionally report the AUROC for the highest scoring albums, say, only the Top 100, as in some
classification tasks these might be the most relevant ones.
-) Introduction, 2nd paragraph: "folsnonomy" instead of "folksonomy"
-) Page 7, first line: "has contributed"
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170433)
07-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Monechi
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170433 entitled
"Significance and Popularity in Music Production" has been accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please
find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
4
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170433
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
5
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 16-Jun-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Miles Padgett
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The paper is a nice and comprehensive study of the evolution of a particular folksonomy.
I suggest the author to mention the results on hypergraphs sketched in
Random Hypergraphs and their applications, G. Ghoshal, V. Zlatic, G. Caldarelli, M.E.J.
Newman, Physical Review E 79, 066118 (2009) and for a more general treatment Hypernetworks
in the Science of Complex Systems by Jeffrey Johnson
World Scientific 2014
As for the adjacent possible idea, its application in the form a generative model of Polya urns is
referred to a paper of the same authors. Also in this case there is quite a number of similar
approaches. We just mention Complex Weighted Networks as Randomly Reinforced Urn
Process G. Caldarelli, A. Chessa, I. Crimaldi, F. Pammolli Physical Review E 87, 020106(R) (2013)
only for the specific relation holding between Polya urns and Rich get richer mechanism. But in
general all of them can be simply considered as a different kind of Yule processes.
The article would certainly benefit from an introduction where all these points are discussed and
presented to the reader in the spirit of Mitzenmacher paper
A brief history of generative models for power law and lognormal distributions. Internet
Mathematics 1, 226–251 (2003).
Passing to the analysis, the metrics introduced to assess the feature of the corpus of music
production are certainly interesting. I find necessary to add a brief description of a null case
against which one can evaluate the significance of the results obtained.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The manuscript entitled "Significance and Popularity in Music Production" by Monechi et al
describes the evolution of musical albums in terms of folksonomic tags. Inspired by Kauffman's
writing on the adjacent possible, they introduce a set of observables that describe how music
explores new themes. As a main result, the authors are able to identify some topological
conditions that seem to be indicative of cultural significance and/or popularity. Overall, the
paper presents a novel and statistically sound dynamic network analysis approach to the
important question of how influential new trends emerge in socio-economic systems. A weaker
point of the paper is that the authors, therefore, introduce a sometimes overwhelming number of
new observables. For some of them it is not really clear whether they are indeed necessary, or to
which extent they are confounded by other, more commonly known network characteristics.
However, I'm more than sure that the authors can address these concerns in a revised version and
recommend publication of this manuscript after minor revisions. In particular, the following
comments might be of interest to the authors.
-) As the authors briefly state in the "Data" section, such music databases contain often several
releases of th same album, in particular of the most influential ones. How have the authors dealt
with multiple releases?
-) The authors could make their results even stronger, if they compare their findings to results
obtained by replacing the Louvain community detection algorithm by a different clustering
method, such as Infomap, OSLOM, LDA, or other related approaches.
-) At some places, it seems that results are reported in the data section. For instance, the
correlation among the variables introduced, last paragraph in the data section, is maybe better
placed in the results section.
7
-) Speaking of which, I think Figure 3 needs to be a bit improved and expanded. It would be
much easier for the reader if the names of the variables are given in the rows. In addition, this is a
good place to discuss how these new measures relate to commonly known network measures,
such as in-degree, out-degree, clustering coefficient, betweenness centrality, eigenvector/alpha
centrality, or PageRank. Maybe it even turns out that some of the new variables are very similar
to one of those and the number of newly introduced ones can therefore be reduced...
-) I haven't found a description of how many albums are contained in the categories (popular,
highly popular, etc). However, for the prediction of the album category it might be informative to
additionally report the AUROC for the highest scoring albums, say, only the Top 100, as in some
classification tasks these might be the most relevant ones.
-) Introduction, 2nd paragraph: "folsnonomy" instead of "folksonomy"
-) Page 7, first line: "has contributed"
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170433)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170433.R1)
16-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Monechi,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Significance and Popularity in Music
Production" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
8
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
ppendix A
ar Editor,
thank the reviewers for the interesting and constructive comments to
e paper we presented. We think the points raised by the reviewers
ntribute to the improvement of our results.
re, we address such points and hope to be exhaustive.
r kindest regards,
rnardo Monechi, Pietro Gravino, Vito D.P. Servedio, Francesca Tria and
ttorio Loreto
******************************
sponse to Reviewer #1:
******************************
The paper is a nice and comprehensive study of the evolution of a
rticular folksonomy.I suggest the author to mention the results on
pergraphs sketched in
ndom Hypergraphs and their applications, G. Ghoshal, V. Zlatic, G.
ldarelli, M.E.J. Newman, Physical Review E 79, 066118 (2009) and for a
re general treatment Hypernetworks in the Science of Complex Systems by
ffrey Johnson World Scientific 2014.
SPONSE: We agree hypergraphs are well-suited to mathematically model
lksonomy networks and hence we added these two references to the main
xt, briefly discussing their importance.
As for the adjacent possible idea, its application in the form a
nerative model of Polya urns is referred to a paper of the same
thors. Also in this case there is quite a number of similar
proaches. We just mention Complex Weighted Networks as Randomly
inforced Urn Process G. Caldarelli, A. Chessa, I. Crimaldi, F. Pammolli
ysical Review E 87, 020106(R) (2013) only for the specific relation
lding between Polya urns and Rich get richer mechanism. But in general
l of them can be simply considered as a different kind of Yule
ocesses.
e article would certainly benefit from an introduction where all these
ints are discussed and presented to the reader in the spirit of
tzenmacher paper
brief history of generative models for power law and lognormal
stributions. Internet Mathematics 1, 226–251 (2003).
SPONSE: We agree with the reviewer that for clarity sake, we need to
d a brief discussion on the application of Polya's Urn to Complex
twork and Complex Systems modelling. We also added a statement
garding the fact that the application to biological systems and
novation dynamics requires the introduction of the concept of novelty
thin the basic Polya's Urn. In the main text:
he application of P\'oyla Urns as generative models is not anew in
plied Mathematics and Complex Systems Science and transcends the
plication to Innovation Dynamics and expanding spaces. The existence of
inforcement effects in the dynamics of Complex Networks for example,
kes them suited to be generated with variants of P\'oyla Urns processes
ite{caldarelli2013weighted}, featuring the ``rich-get-richer'' effect
so known as ``Yule Process'' \cite{yule1925mathematical}. The
plication to Innovation Dynamics requires the introduction of
nditions for the arrival of innovations as formalized for the first
me in the ``Hoppe Urn Model'' \cite{hoppe1987sampling} and extended in
ite{tria2014dynamics} in order to model the appearance of new elements
the consequence of the introduction of novelties. "
Passing to the analysis, the metrics introduced to assess the feature
the corpus of music production are certainly interesting. I find
cessary to add a brief description of a null case against which one can
aluate the significance of the results obtained.
SPONSE: In order to assess the significance with respect to a random
se, we add null model respecting the temporal biases that can be found
the distribution of the Playcount and in the belonging to an expert
de list (e.g. it is easier to be significant if the album is old and to
popular if it is recent). To this end, we divided the whole sample of
bums in time frames of 10 years. Hence, we randomly reassign the
aycount value between the albums belonging to the same time frame, and
do the same with the binary variables stating whether and album
longs to an expert made list or not. Finally, we used the
assification method and our metrics to predict the belonging to one of
e 4 categories in the main text with this new randomized sample. We
nd that generally, we are not able to classify the albums correctly or
at the prediction has considerably worsened.
the main text:
order to test the significance of the predictions, in Supporting
formation Section~D we show the same prediction for a randomized case
ere both the belonging to a category and the Playcount has been
ndomly reassigned among all the albums being released in the same
cade. The classification for this randomized case shows a significant
crease of the AuROC for each category, being in most cases very close
$0.5$.
******************************
sponse to Reviewer #2:
******************************
e manuscript entitled "Significance and Popularity in Music Production"
Monechi et al describes the evolution of musical albums in terms of
lksonomic tags. Inspired by Kauffman's writing on the adjacent
ssible, they introduce a set of observables that describe how music
plores new themes. As a main result, the authors are able to identify
me topological conditions that seem to be indicative of cultural
gnificance and/or popularity. Overall, the paper presents a novel and
atistically sound dynamic network analysis approach to the important
estion of how influential new trends emerge in socio-economic systems.
weaker point of the paper is that the authors, therefore, introduce a
metimes overwhelming number of new observables. For some of them it is
t really clear whether they are indeed necessary, or to which extent
ey are confounded by other, more commonly known network
aracteristics. However, I'm more than sure that the authors can address
ese concerns in a revised version and recommend publication of this
nuscript after minor revisions. In particular, the following comments
ght be of interest to the authors.
As the authors briefly state in the "Data" section, such music
tabases contain often several releases of th same album, in particular
the most influential ones. How have the authors dealt with multiple
leases?
SPONSE: Since we are interested in the way an album affects the global
sic production from the time it has been released to the vast public,
do not take into account multiple releases that will result in very
milar (if not identical) artworks created at different times. Hence, we
ltered out multiple releases by considering just the first release of
ch album. We specified this in the main text with the statement:
ltiple-release of the same album have been excluded from the sample
eping just the very first release.
The authors could make their results even stronger, if they compare
eir findings to results obtained by replacing the Louvain community
tection algorithm by a different clustering method, such as Infomap,
LOM, LDA, or other related approaches.
SPONSE: Concerning the arbitrary choice of the community detection
gorithm, we agree that in order to test the robustness of the findings
least another clustering method has to be used. Since LDA suffers from
oblems due to the size of our data, we decided to use another community
tection algorithm and hence group albums according to the resulting
mmunity structure as it has been done with the Lovain method. We
cided to use the OSLOM Algorithm and we recomputed the Burstiness,
instreamness, Uchronia Entropy and Topical Entropy using the
mmunities found with it. We then proceded to use the Random Forest
gorithm to predict the belonging of the albums to our 4 categories,
oving that the results are mostly unvaried with respect to the Louvain
se. In the main text:
st of the metrics introduced in this work depend on the particular
mmunity structure we considered. In all the results discussed above, we
ed the Louvain method for community detection\cite{blondel2008fast}.
order to test the robustness of our predictions with respect to
riations in identifying communities,
repeated all the measures when the community structure is identified
using the OSLOM Algorithm \cite{lancichinetti2011finding}. In
ction~E of Supporting Information, we show that even with this
fferent method we are able to predict the belonging to each category
th almost the same accuracy. Moreover, the most important metrics for
e various predictions remain the same.
At some places, it seems that results are reported in the data
ction. For instance, the correlation among the variables introduced,
st paragraph in the data section, is maybe better placed in the results
ction.
SPONSE: We thank the reviewer for the suggestion and we do agree that
e discussion of the correlation between the metrics introduced have to
placed in the Results section. We created an appropriate subsection of
e Results section and moved the discussion there.
Speaking of which, I think Figure 3 needs to be a bit improved and
panded. It would be much easier for the reader if the names of the
riables are given in the rows. In addition, this is a good place to
scuss how these new measures relate to commonly known network measures,
ch as in-degree, out-degree, clustering coefficient, betweenness
ntrality, eigenvector/alpha centrality, or PageRank. Maybe it even
rns out that some of the new variables are very similar to one of those
d the number of newly introduced ones can therefore be reduced...
SPONSE: We do understand the concerns of the reviewer about the metrics
troduced, but it is our opinion that many standard metrics typically
ed for the characterisation of Complex Network would not be suited for
e task of understanding the properties of albums and their relation
th the global music production represented by the growing co-occurrence
twork. In fact, many of these metrics aim at identifying the most
central'' or ``influential'' nodes, which is not necessarily what we
e looking for in many of the metrics introduced. However, we agree that
comparison with some well-known metrics will add relevant information
the work. Hence, we expanded Figure 3 by adding the name of the
trics in the rows and 4 standard network metrics (namely In-Degree,
t-Degree, Betweenness Centrality and Eigenvector Centrality). All these
trics result being correlated with one another and concerning the
trics introduced they show a strong correlation or anti-correlation
th the Uchronia, Uchronia Entropy and Ajdacent Possible metrics which
n be in fact considered centrality metrics. In the main text we also
ded:
e metrics introduced have also been compared with well-known network
ntrality metrics such as In-Degree, Out-Degree, Betweenness Centrality
d Eigenvector Centrality, corresponding to the rows and columns outside
e dotted square in Fig.~\ref{fig3}. These metrics are computed over
e co-occurrence network whose nodes are tags, and we assigned to each
bum the value corresponding to the average over its tags. We can see
at these metrics are highly correlated between each other, and feature
e same correlations patterns with the other metrics introduced in this
rk, i.e., they are correlated or anti-correlated in the same way with
e other metrics. Hence, they seem to carry similar information
garding the properties of the albums. Unsurprisingly, they exhibit
rger (anti-)correlations with the Uchronia, Uchronia Entropy and
jacent Possible metrics, which can be regarded as network centrality
trics.
I haven't found a description of how many albums are contained in the
tegories (popular, highly popular, etc). However, for the prediction of
e album category it might be informative to additionally report the
ROC for the highest scoring albums, say, only the Top 100, as in some
assification tasks these might be the most relevant ones.
SPONSE: We reported the numbers of albums in each category in the main
xt (41053 for the Popular, 7325 for the Highly Popular, 619 for the
/NME and, 509 for the GHF/NRR categories). As for the reduction of the
assification to the Top 100 highest scoring albums with RFA, we really
ink that due to the small numbers of the last two categories such
duction would not result in new information but rather in lesser
tegorization performances.
nally, we thank the reviewer for signalling those misprints and we
naged to correct them.
Society Open
