Strong biomechanical constraints on young children’s
mental imagery of hands
Kaoru Sekiyama, Toshiro Kinoshita, Takahiro Soshi
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140118.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140118
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 June 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 10 November 2014 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140118.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Matthew Longo)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper, “Strong biomechanical constraints on young children’s mental imagery of hands”, by
Sekiyama and colleagues, reports an experiment investigating the development of hand motor
imagery. The authors report that the effects of biomechanical constraints on motor imagery are
particularly acute for the youngest children tested (1st and 2nd graders).
This is a well designed and written paper investigating an interesting issue. I believe it will make
a useful contribution to the literature on motor imagery and the development thereof. I have only
a few minor comments and suggestions for how the paper might be improved in a revision.
1. Throughout the paper, the authors describe children in terms of their grade level (e.g., “2nd
grade”). I find this somewhat less clear than describing actual ages (e.g., “7-year-olds”), especially
as conventions for what ages are associated with which grades may vary from country to
country. Thus, I would suggest replacing grade levels with actual ages throughout the text and
figures.
2. On the bottom of pg. 3 the authors suggest that “If participants can perform the task accurately,
the inference is that they have an appropriate body schema for hands.” This strikes me as too
strongly phrased. I understand the arguments for why hand mental rotation is thought to invoke
motor (and not just visual) imagery. But it is also clear that the task could be performed in a
purely visual way. Therefore, the fact of successfully performing the task cannot in itself be taken
as evidence of an appropriate body schema for hands, any more than Shepard and Metzler’s
original results can be taken as evidence for an appropriate body schema for abstract shapes.
3. The y-axis label on Figure 3 (“Ratio of number of participants”) is a bit unclear. Perhaps
“Proportion of participants” would be more precise?
4. When comparing the number of errors made in the ‘manageable’ and ‘non-manageable’
conditions, the authors take the ratio of errors, with the idea that if these are the same, the ratio
should be 1. It is not clear to me what the authors take the ratio of errors, rather than their
difference. The use of ratios in inferential statistics is complicated, as the mean of ratios is biased
to be bigger than 1. As the authors use non-parametric tests, I think they have probably avoided
the worst consequences of this problem. But when presenting means and SE’s of ratios (as in
Figure 5b) the data should properly be log-transformed first.
Matthew Longo
Birkbeck, University of London
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Masahiro Hirai)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
3
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
Overview
The authors studied how the biomechanical constraints affect the visual perception of body parts
such as hand and its developmental trajectories. The authors found that young children aged 7-8
years are strongly affected by the biomechanical constraint compared to older children. The
authors report a solid piece of experimental research and interesting results. However, both in the
introduction and in the discussion in the manuscript would benefit from more elaborate
theoretical framing.
Introduction
1) The authors mentioned “If the developmental order of knowledge representations—that is,
action-based representation preceding visual representation—is generalized to body schema, it is
expected that children rely heavily on properties of action execution during the hand MR task
while older children and adults may use a visual imagery strategy to some extent.”, but are there
any evidences supporting the hypothesis? (an inconsistent finding from Kruger and Krist, 2009)
2) Do the authors have hypotheses based on a specific theoretical framework? I understand that
the developmental trajectories for the hand MR had not been well tested and important to solve
the question, but I think it would be great to address the current study based on previous
theoretical frameworks.
Methods
1) What is the definition of ‘manageable’? Please define it clearly in this section. It is vague to me.
2) Why the authors did not include a control task such as conventional mental rotation task
(object rotation) which would not be required to manipulate body schema. If the authors did not
find any effects of body schema for the control task, it would further support the current findings.
Discussion
1) Are there any ideas (or theoretical frameworks) that explain why the transition from
dominance of motor imagery to visual imagery happened according to development? For
example, is it possible that experience on hand movement or hand action affects the changes for
the strategy for imagery?
2) The authors mentioned the reason why the current findings are different from a previous
study by Kruger and Krist (2009). Other than the differences of the experimental paradigm and
settings, do the authors have other explanations?
3) Relating to above point, but how did the experience of hand movement affect the current
findings? For example, the behavioral performance such as reaction time and error rate might be
influenced by one’s ability to rotate a wrist. Or did the authors measure scores that evaluate
children’s motor experience? Are there no individual differences at all in the same group?
4) Are there any possibilities that hand postures or action preparation of participants affect the
performance (c.f. Hagura et al., 2012)?
5) Are there any connections between the current findings and other cognitive functions such as
executive function during transitional period during which children shift the way by which they
manipulate body schema?
6) How does the current finding contribute to develop a theoretical framework for ‘visuomotor
imagery’?
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter
8th September 2014
Dear Dr Sekiyama,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Strong biomechanical constraints on young children’s
mental imagery of hands") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to
revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance. Please submit a copy of your revised paper within 14 days - if we
do not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn.
In exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. Once submitted your paper may be returned to the previous referees, or new ones if
these are unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre. When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this
to document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor,
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140118.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140118.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Matthew Longo)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
5
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have satisfactorily addressed the points I raised. I think this is a very nice paper.
Matthew Longo Birkbeck, University of London
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Masahiro Hirai)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
I recommend that this paper be accepted for publication in the royal society open journal.
Decision Letter (RSOS-140118.R1)
Dear Dr Sekiyama,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Strong biomechanical constraints on
young children’s mental imagery of hands" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 working
days. Please contact the production office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an
extremely tight schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in
publication.
6
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.In order to
raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your paper to
selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with the name
and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Ms Charlotte Wray,
Miss Cara
Greencharlotte.wray@royalsociety.org,
cara.green@royalsociety.org,
cara.green@abdn.ac.uk
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Appendix A
September 23, 2014
Subject Editor of Royal Society Open Science
Dear Subject Editor:
Thank you very much for your kind consideration on our manuscript entitled
“Strong biomechanical constraints on young children’s mental imagery of hands”
(Manuscript ID: RSOS-140118). We also greatly appreciate the valuable
comments of you and two reviewers. Here, we would like to briefly mention how
we have incorporated the comments in our revised manuscript.
In the following, numbering of Reviewer’s comments has been somewhat
modified to express our replies efficiently.
A. Theoretical framing and clarification of novelty
(Subject Editor)
About the theoretical framing which was pointed out by Reviewer 2, we have
proposed our hypothesis, the ‘primary area hypothesis’, explicitly in introduction,
rather than stating it only in discussion. The hypothesis was led by accumulated
recent neuroimaging findings as well as earlier developmental theories. See
page 5, 2nd paragraph.
About the clarification of novelty, we have added a few sentences in Conclusion.
See page 21, 4th and 5th sentences after ‘To conclude, ‘.
B. Technical comments
(Reviewer 1)
(1) Use of actual age rather than school grade
We have followed this suggestion. In the main text, we have only renamed
the groups such as 1st graders as 6-year-olds, 2nd graders as 7-year-olds. In
fact, this way of labeling was not accurate because two ages coexisted in a
school grade (6- and 7- year-olds in the 1st grade). Rather than splitting these
age groups into different groups, we simply took the same analysis from the
original submission. However, we have also done grouping by chronological
age in Supplementary Data and shown that the results were almost the same
as school grade grouping.
(2) Wording
In the bottom paragraph of page 3 “If participants can perform the task
accurately, the inference is that they have an appropriate body schema for
hands”, ‘body schema’ has been replaced by ‘mental representation’.
(3) The axis label on Figure 3
“Ratio of number of participants” has been replaced by “Proportion of
participants”
(4) Use of ratios of error rates
The statistical analyses (Kruskal–Wallis test and Mann–Whitney tests) have
been redone after the data were log-transformed. See Data Analyses section
(3 lines from the bottom of the 1st paragraph of page 10). Results were
modified with new values (<U+03C7>2 and Us, on page 14).
C. Theoretical framing, clarity of methods, and miscellaneous discussions
(Reviewer 2)
(1) Introduction
Reviewer 2 asks if there are any evidences supporting the hypothesis that
children may rely heavily on properties of action execution during the hand
MR task, and also the clarity of theoretical framing. Therefore, as mentioned
in section A, we have proposed our hypothesis in a more clear way, based on
accumulated recent neuroimaging findings as well as earlier developmental
theories. See page 5, 2nd paragraph, as well as following two paragraphs.
(2) Methods
1) What is the definition of ‘manageable’? Please define it clearly in this
section. It is vague to me.
We have added ‘This was confirmed by comparing RTs for the hand MR task
and subjective ratings for biomechanical ‘manageability’ in imitative hand
movements (Sekiyama,1983; Parsons, 1987).’ See page 4, 2nd paragraph.
2) Why the authors did not include a control task such as conventional
mental rotation task (object rotation)?
In trade-off with other experimental factors, we gave up having such a control
task. We took priority to the number of rotation angles and the number of age
groups. In many of recent studies that use a control task such as letters or
non-body objects, they often sacrifice the number of rotation angles by
reducing it to 90-deg step. We believe that having small-step angles of
stimulus rotation will promote occurrence of mental rotation (in 45-deg step in
our study and 30-deg step in the original Shepard & Metzler study). We also
wanted to delineate the developmental trajectory, thus many age groups
were preferable like a continuous variable. In fact, we believe that these
strategies were effective in observing the developmental changes of
biomechanical constraints that can be captured within 45-deg peak
differences between groups with one or two years of age differences.
(3) Discussion
1) Are there any ideas (or theoretical frameworks) that explain why the
transition from dominance of motor imagery to visual imagery happened
according to development?
2) Are there any connections between the current findings and other
cognitive functions such as executive function during transitional period
during which children shift the way by which they manipulate body schema?
Thank you for these good points. We have added a new section in
Discussion and discussed these points. See pages 19-20.
3) The authors mentioned the reason why the current findings are different
from a previous study by Kruger and Krist (2009). Other than the differences
of the experimental paradigm and settings, do the authors have other
explanations?
Looking at the data by Kruger and Krist (2009) again, we have added another
possibility that their youngest participants (5 years old) might have moved
their own hands during the task to some extent. See pages 16-17.
4) Relating to above point, but how did the experience of hand movement
affect the current findings? For example, the behavioral performance such as
reaction time and error rate might be influenced by one’s ability to rotate a
wrist. Or did the authors measure scores that evaluate children’s motor
experience? Are there no individual differences at all in the same group?
Thank you for this comment. We did not measure children’s ability to rotate a
wrist or evaluate children’s motor experiences. But we have additionally
mentioned a study that revealed a significant improvement in fine motor
control between age 7-8 and 9-10 years (Caeyenberghs et al., 2009). See
the 3rd paragraph of page 20.
As for individual differences, there were some differences, not only for
children but also for adults. But as we calculated internal consistencies by
Cronbach’s a coefficients (2nd paragraph of page 12), each RT function was
fairly representative for each age group, with coefficients higher than a
criterion of 0.7 (0.88 to 0.94).
5) Are there any possibilities that hand postures or action preparation of
participants affect the performance?
We believe this would be the case. But there are already nice previous
studies (e.g., Funk et al., 2005; Hagura et al., 2012) and we believe that it is
beyond the scope of this study.
6) How does the current finding contribute to develop a theoretical framework
for ‘visuomotor imagery’?
In Discussion, we have argued that there are three stages for manipulation of
body schema: action execution, motor imagery, and visuomotor imagery. In
this developmental trajectory, motor imagery in young children may have a
role as a transitional period between action execution and purely mental
manipulation of body schema (visuomotor imagery). See the 2nd paragraph of
page 20.
Finally, several words and phrases have been corrected, removed, or replaced
with those that are more appropriate.
We appreciate your consideration of our manuscript, and we would be very
grateful if our revised manuscript is acceptable for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
Sincerely yours,
Kaoru Sekiyama
Kumamoto University
Society Open
