The causal meaning of Hamilton’s rule
Samir Okasha and Johannes Martens
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160037.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160037
Review timeline
Original submission: 20 January 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 15 February 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 16 February 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160037.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The paper investigates the casual meaning of the generalized Hamilton's rule, i.e., the exact
version of the rule that applies also under non-additive payoffs via partial regression coefficients.
Using an argument due to Fisher in the context of his fundamental theorem of natural selection,
the authors make the case for a quasi-causal meaning of the generalized version of Hamilton's
rule: if the environment (in this case, a particular measure of assortment) is held constant, then
the partial regression coefficients are equivalent to expected causal effects of switching strategies.
The paper is the last in a series of papers by the first author in which the generality and validity
of Hamilton's rule in particular, and inclusive fitness arguments in general, is explored. Although
the analysis is a bit narrow (the casual meaning of the rule is given only for a very particular
example of a social interaction), I think that the contribution is important for the current debate
and much welcome. I would only have the following few comments, that I hope will help
improving the manuscript.
* l. 20-21: Weak selection can mean at least two different things [Wild & Traulsen (2007) Journal
of Theoretical Biology. 247, 382–390]: "delta-weak selection" (phenotypically similar strategies)
and "w-weak selection" (distinct strategies, that however have a small effect in fitness). I think it
is important to mention that the kind of weak selection referred to here is delta-weak, or what
Ref. 2 calls "genes of small effect" (this is also the reason why partial derivatives approximate
partial regressions in Ref. 3). In addition, given the prominence of matrix games and game-
theoretic language used in the paper ("payoffs", "two-player game with synergy", etc) it might be
useful to point out that such weak selection approximation can also handle matrix games with
non-additive payoffs when mixed strategies under delta-weak selection are considered. An
example of this, using the approximations discussed in Refs. 3-4 and covering also the case of
multiple partners is presented in [Pena, J., Lehmann, L., & Noldeke, G. (2014). Journal of
Theoretical Biology, 346, 23-33].
* Eq. 1 and mathematical notation in general: the symbols for covariance (Cov), variance (Var),
and probability (Pr), they all look a bit amateurish. Better use the following LaTeX commands:
$\mathrm{Cov}$, $\mathrm{Var}$, and $\Pr$.
* Eq. 2 and elsewhere: these $b$s should be $\beta$s; $b$ is alaredy used for a particular partial
regression (defined in line 76).
* l. 116: write $i$th instead of $i^{th}$ (which looks weird).
* Eq. 7 and 8: exchange the round and the square brackets (this is a more common convention).
* Eq. 9: use curly brackets instead of the outer round brackets (again, a more common
convention).
* line 132: a brief mention that the polymorphic equilibrium obtains when $\Delta p = 0$ would
help a puzzled reader.
* p. 10: Here the authors introduce the hypothetical experiment of picking an S individual and
switching it to A. Given the prominence of such switchings in the rest of the paper, I think it
might be a good idea to connect with previous work and note that such switchings have been
considered before in models of social evolution; in matrix game-theoretic models they are often
referred to as the "gains from switching"; indeed, the prisoner's dilemma with $D=0$ is often
3
referred to as the prisoner's dilemma with "equal gains from switching". See for instance [Wild &
Traulsen (2007) Journal of Theoretical Biology. 247, 382–390], [Pena, J., Lehmann, L., & Noldeke,
G. (2014). Journal of Theoretical Biology, 346, 23-33] and references therein.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (James Marshall)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This manuscript represents an important and subtle development of the literature surrounding
the interpretation of causality is inclusive fitness theory. This topic has seen some high profile
debate recently and this manuscript represents a valuable and even-handed development of the
relevant theory and its interpretation. The idea of appealing to Fisher's average effect, albeit not
being proposed for the first time here (Marshall, 2015, Princeton University Press informally links
the mutation test with Fisher's average effect argument and with regression, and I think Gardner
et al's genetical theory of kin selection may also have noted the analogy, at the least), is nice and
done very thoroughly such that new insights are generated; I see here that assumptions I have
previously made are more subtle than I first appreciated, and this is very useful.
I have only minor comments. Some of these relate to the literature and for these I generally refer
to my own work for summaries:
line 66: please provide a reference to 'standard definition of the coefficient of relatedness'. N.B.
personally I find using p to refer to genetic value potentially confusing, due to the frequent use of
p to refer to expressed phenotypic value for conditional phenotypes; of course there is history for
the former notation, i.e. 'p-scores', and there are no explicitly conditional phenotypes here.
line 94: did Queller not also compute partial regression coefficients for this game in his paper, in
order to show how non-additivity violates the 'separation condition' of quantitative genetics?
line. 106: it would be helpful to include some constraints on C, B and D such that it realises a
Prisoner's Dilemma. The non-additive donation game can capture any 2x2 social dilemma by
choosing parameter values appropriately.
4
sec. 3.1: the consideration of effect of genetic change holding everything else constant is akin to
Nunney's mutation test, it seems to me. This is discussed in Marshall (2015). Linking to this
earlier tradition may aid readers.
line 176: I don't think it is empirically unlikely that r is negative in general - spite, requiring
negative r, has now been documented in various biological systems. And if the population is
inelastic then as E.O. Wilson surmised and others have confirmed, altruism to positively related
individuals equates to spite towards negatively related individuals (summarised in Marshall,
2015).
line 243: I think that, as the authors point out, Fisher's formulation of the problem is similar to
their social evolution scenario, because of the links between classical multilocus population
genetics and social evolution theory that have previously been pointed out (Gardner et al., 2007).
general comment/conclusion: I am not sure to what extent the proponents of the regression
method would disagree with the presentation of their positions here. I am a little uncomfortable
that the references are very general as to what is said. From memory Gardner et al. 2011 also note
that no individual member of the population experiences the costs derived via the regression
method, in the non-additive case, and Marshall 2015 makes the same point (see index entry on
regression analysis and causality). Both authors are, in my interpretation, taking Fisher's position
of treating natural selection as a statistical process. It is not clear to me that there is not a causal
interpretation of costs and benefits derived as such, when no individual experiences them. This is
a philosophical point that the authors are well qualified to engage with, but do not do so to any
great extent. What the present article does is present the subtleties of this argument that need to
be accounted for, and this is very useful. Still, I feel the article's value would be enhanced by
being a little more direct on what proponents of this method (namely Gardner et al., and
Marshall 2015) say in detail about the interpretation of these regression coefficients. For myself, I
would be happy to see such constructive criticism in print.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Benjamin Allen)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
There is no supporting data for this paper (none is needed)
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
5
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This manuscript examines the regression method for obtaining Hamilton’s rule in the case of a
2x2 matrix game with non-uniform interactions. It focuses on the question of whether the terms
resulting from this regression have a causal interpretation. It concludes that they do not, unless
one imposes a rather strange requirement that a certain statistic of the population structure is
held constant in any hypothetical intervention.
The manuscript makes a important point. I think that the discussion of causality is valuable for
the field in general. The manuscript is clearly written. The mathematics is correct as far as I have
checked.
I do have a number of suggestions that I think would lead to a more complete analysis of the
problem. But since manuscripts for this journal are evaluated on the basis of correctness only,
these suggestions are optional.
The manuscript identifies the cost of altruism—in a causal sense—as the expected change in
payoff when a random Selfish individual is switched to an Altruist. This is certainly a reasonable
definition of cost (more reasonable, I would argue, than the regression definition). But it is not
the only possibility. One could also consider the change when an Altruist is switched to Selfish,
and take the opposite of this change. One might argue that the fairest definition would be to
choose a random individual, switch its strategy, and consider the expected change in payoff,
counting A->S changes as opposite in sign from S->A changes. With this last definition, one
obtains a “cost” of C-Dp, assuming my rough calculations are correct. This cost makes a certain
amount of sense: it is C when selfish types dominate and C-D when altruists dominate. Of
course, this cost is again different from that obtained by the regression method.
I wonder if the same Fisherian condition also allows this cost to be consistent with the regression-
defined cost. That is, suppose one picks a random individual of either type from the population,
changes its type while maintaining Q^2/(PR)=const, and considers the expected change in
payoff, counting A->S changes as opposite in sign from S->A changes. Would the cost resulting
from this calculation coincide with that from the regression method, or would some other
constraint have to be satisfied?
When the manuscript turns in the Conclusion to possible implications for other evolutionary
models, it may be worth mentioning that no “costant lambda” type of condition could possibly
resolve the situations constructed by Allen et al (2013) for which the regression method gives
nonsensical results. More generally, for any model with any kind of active partner choice, a
regression of the form (2) will never be able to distinguish the fitness consequences of an
interaction from statistical associations due to partner choice.
There is some literature I think the manuscript could benefit from engaging with. Allen &
Nowak (2015) also consider a counterfactual definition of “cost”—see Eqs. (27) and (28) of that
paper. (Note, however, that the regression comes out differently in Allen & Nowak 2015 because
in that model each individual interacts with a large sample of the population instead of just one
partner.) But the earliest counterfactual notions of cost and benefit may be those in Karlin &
Matessi (1983).
Another relevant recent paper is Rousset (2015). Rousset gives an alternate derivation of the
regression method as the solution to a system of equations involving b, c, and r. He argues that
this derivation “keep(s) upfront the biological meaning of the calculations throughout the
argument”. It may be worth pointing out that whatever biological meanings Rousset is referring
to, they do not correspond to the straightforward causal definitions used in this manuscript.
6
In Eqs. (2) and (3) is the b supposed to be a beta? If not, what is the difference between b and
beta?
In the expressions for r, it should be made clear that the entire product (P+Q)(R+Q) is in the
denominator (I assume this is what is intended). Also, the versions on pages 18 and 20 contain an
errant period in the denominator.
In Case ii on page 21, it is weird to see fractions as approximate values. Standard mathematical
convention is to use decimals for approximations are reserve fractions for when they are exact
(unless these approximations are given by a specific formula).
Lastly, I wonder if the title is a little too strong. To me, the manuscript raises more questions
about the causal meaning of Hamilton’s rule than it answers.
Benjamin Allen
Emmanuel College, Boston, MA
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160037)
10-Feb-2016
Dear Dr Okasha
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160037 entitled
"The Causal Meaning of Hamilton's Rule" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find
the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
7
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160037
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 19-Feb-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
8
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160037)
See Appendix A.
number of changes to the manuscript as a result, explained below.
Reviewer: 1
line 66: please provide a reference to 'standard definition of the coefficient of
relatedness'.
Reply: Done.
line 94: did Queller not also compute partial regression coefficients for this game in
his paper, in order to show how non-additivity violates the 'separation condition' of
quantitative genetics?
Reply: No, Queller does not explicitly compute the coefficients in question in the
paper to which the reviewer is referring.
line. 106: it would be helpful to include some constraints on C, B and D such that it
realises a Prisoner's Dilemma. The non-additive donation game can capture any 2x2
social dilemma by choosing parameter values appropriately.
Reply: we have dropped the reference to the game being a Prisoner’s dilemma, as
our analysis is wholly general and doesn’t require any constraints on C, B and D.
sec. 3.1: the consideration of effect of genetic change holding everything else
constant is akin to Nunney's mutation test, it seems to me. This is discussed in
Marshall (2015). Linking to this earlier tradition may aid readers.
Reply: we have added a number of references to other papers that discuss
‘switching’, including Nunney 1985. This was also suggested by reviewer 2.
line 176: I don't think it is empirically unlikely that r is negative in general - spite,
requiring negative r, has now been documented in various biological systems. And if
the population is inelastic then as E.O. Wilson surmised and others have confirmed,
altruism to positively related individuals equates to spite towards negatively related
individuals (summarised in Marshall, 2015).
Reply: we have dropped the claim that negative r is empirically unlikely.
line 243: I think that, as the authors point out, Fisher's formulation of the problem is
similar to their social evolution scenario, because of the links between classical
multilocus population genetics and social evolution theory that have previously been
pointed out (Gardner et al., 2007).
Reply: true, but the connection in question is in fact well-known and fairly obvious, so
we don’t cite Gardner et al. 2007 at this point.
general comment/conclusion: I am not sure to what extent the proponents of the
a little uncomfortable that the references are very general as to what is said. From
memory Gardner et al. 2011 also note that no individual member of the population
experiences the costs derived via the regression method, in the non-additive case,
and Marshall 2015 makes the same point (see index entry on regression analysis
and causality). Both authors are, in my interpretation, taking Fisher's position of
treating natural selection as a statistical process. It is not clear to me that there is not
a causal interpretation of costs and benefits derived as such, when no individual
experiences them. This is a philosophical point that the authors are well qualified to
engage with, but do not do so to any great extent. What the present article does is
present the subtleties of this argument that need to be accounted for, and this is very
useful. Still, I feel the article's value would be enhanced by being a little more direct
on what proponents of this method (namely Gardner et al., and Marshall 2015) say in
detail about the interpretation of these regression coefficients. For myself, I would be
happy to see such constructive criticism in print.
Reply: we have partially dealt with this issue by adding references to more recent
papers discussing the regression approach, such as Marshall (2015) Rousset
(2015), and Pena, J., Lehmann, L., & Noldeke, G. (2014). We feel that the existing
conclusion does satisfactorily deal with the philosophical issues.
Reviewer: 2
* l. 20-21: Weak selection can mean at least two different things [Wild & Traulsen
(2007) Journal of Theoretical Biology. 247, 382–390]: "delta-weak selection"
(phenotypically similar strategies) and "w-weak selection" (distinct strategies, that
however have a small effect in fitness). I think it is important to mention that the kind
of weak selection referred to here is delta-weak, or what Ref. 2 calls "genes of small
effect" (this is also the reason why partial derivatives approximate partial regressions
in Ref. 3). In addition, given the prominence of matrix games and game-theoretic
language used in the paper ("payoffs", "two-player game with synergy", etc) it might
be useful to point out that such weak selection approximation can also handle matrix
games with non-additive payoffs when mixed strategies under delta-weak selection
are considered. An example of this, using the approximations discussed in Refs. 3-4
and covering also the case of multiple partners is presented in [Pena, J., Lehmann,
L., & Noldeke, G. (2014). Journal of Theoretical Biology, 346, 23-33].
Reply: we have added this point on lines 21-22 and have added a reference to Wild
and Trauslen (2007).
* Eq. 1 and mathematical notation in general: the symbols for covariance (Cov),
following LaTeX commands: $\mathrm{Cov}$, $\mathrm{Var}$, and $\Pr$.
Reply: we have made this change.
* Eq. 2 and elsewhere: these $b$s should be $\beta$s; $b$ is already used for a
particular partial regression (defined in line 76).
Reply: we have made this change.
* l. 116: write $i$th instead of $i^{th}$ (which looks weird).
Reply: we have made this change
* Eq. 7 and 8: exchange the round and the square brackets (this is a more common
convention).
Reply: we have made this change
* Eq. 9: use curly brackets instead of the outer round brackets (again, a more
common convention).
Reply: we have made this change
* line 132: a brief mention that the polymorphic equilibrium obtains when $\Delta p =
0$ would help a puzzled reader.
Reply: we have not made this change as it seems redundant.
* p. 10: Here the authors introduce the hypothetical experiment of picking an S
individual and switching it to A. Given the prominence of such switchings in the rest
of the paper, I think it might be a good idea to connect with previous work and note
that such switchings have been considered before in models of social evolution; in
matrix game-theoretic models they are often referred to as the "gains from
switching"; indeed, the prisoner's dilemma with $D=0$ is often referred to as the
prisoner's dilemma with "equal gains from switching". See for instance [Wild &
Traulsen (2007) Journal of Theoretical Biology. 247, 382–390], [Pena, J., Lehmann,
L., & Noldeke, G. (2014). Journal of Theoretical Biology, 346, 23-33] and references
therein.
Reply: this is a good point. We now discuss the fact the concept of “switching” has
been discussed before, and have added relevant references (see p. 144-6).
Reviewer: 3
The manuscript identifies the cost of altruism—in a causal sense—as the expected
change in payoff when a random Selfish individual is switched to an Altruist. This is
certainly a reasonable definition of cost (more reasonable, I would argue, than the
regression definition). But it is not the only possibility. One could also consider the
change when an Altruist is switched to Selfish, and take the opposite of this
change. One might argue that the fairest definition would be to choose a random
individual, switch its strategy, and consider the expected change in payoff, counting
A->S changes as opposite in sign from S->A changes. With this last definition, one
obtains a “cost” of C-Dp, assuming my rough calculations are correct. This cost
makes a certain amount of sense: it is C when selfish types dominate and C-D when
altruists dominate. Of course, this cost is again different from that obtained by the
regression method.
I wonder if the same Fisherian condition also allows this cost to be consistent with
the regression-defined cost. That is, suppose one picks a random individual of either
type from the population, changes its type while maintaining Q^2/(PR)=const, and
considers the expected change in payoff, counting A->S changes as opposite in sign
from S->A changes. Would the cost resulting from this calculation coincide with that
from the regression method, or would some other constraint have to be satisfied?
Reply: it is quite true that our definition of ‘cost’ isn’t the only possible one. We have
explicitly noted (lines 170-4) that the expected effect of an A->S switch is not equal
but opposite to the expected effect of an S->A switch. Our definition is exactly
parallel to that used by Fisher (discussed in section 4), and corresponds to how
partial regression coefficients are usually explained in the context of statistical
inference.
When the manuscript turns in the Conclusion to possible implications for other
evolutionary models, it may be worth mentioning that no “costant lambda” type of
condition could possibly resolve the situations constructed by Allen et al (2013) for
which the regression method gives nonsensical results. More generally, for any
model with any kind of active partner choice, a regression of the form (2) will never
be able to distinguish the fitness consequences of an interaction from statistical
associations due to partner choice.
Reply: we have not studied whether an argument like the one we give can be applied
to the Allen et al. (2013) examples, so prefer not to take a stand on this.
There is some literature I think the manuscript could benefit from engaging
with. Allen & Nowak (2015) also consider a counterfactual definition of “cost”—see
Eqs. (27) and (28) of that paper. (Note, however, that the regression comes out
differently in Allen & Nowak 2015 because in that model each individual interacts
with a large sample of the population instead of just one partner.) But the earliest
counterfactual notions of cost and benefit may be those in Karlin & Matessi (1983).
Another relevant recent paper is Rousset (2015). Rousset gives an alternate
derivation of the regression method as the solution to a system of equations
involving b, c, and r. He argues that this derivation “keep(s) upfront the biological
meaning of the calculations throughout the argument”. It may be worth pointing out
that whatever biological meanings Rousset is referring to, they do not correspond to
the straightforward causal definitions used in this manuscript.
Reply: we have added references to all of these papers, and have added a sentence
noting that the definition of “cost” we used has been foreshadowed in the literature
(see lines 144-146).
In Eqs. (2) and (3) is the b supposed to be a beta? If not, what is the difference
between b and beta?
Reply: Yes, we have corrected this.
In the expressions for r, it should be made clear that the entire product (P+Q)(R+Q)
is in the denominator (I assume this is what is intended). Also, the versions on
pages 18 and 20 contain an errant period in the denominator.
Reply: corrected.
In Case ii on page 21, it is weird to see fractions as approximate values. Standard
mathematical convention is to use decimals for approximations are reserve fractions
for when they are exact (unless these approximations are given by a specific
formula).
Reply: we have changed the fractions to decimals.
Lastly, I wonder if the title is a little too strong. To me, the manuscript raises more
questions about the causal meaning of Hamilton’s rule than it answers.
Reply: we have considered this, but on reflection think that the title is ok, as it is an
accurate reflection of the content of the paper.
Society Open
