Digital trade coin: towards a more stable digital currency
Alex Lipton, Thomas Hardjono and Alex Pentland
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180155.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180155
Review timeline
Original submission: 31 January 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 8 June 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 June 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180155.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Michael Huth)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I really like the ideas behind this paper, and its noble goals of offering solutions to digital
currencies that would be more stable. The topic is also an important one, in the DLT context, and
would be a nice fit and contribution to the thematic BCT issue.
I do have some suggestions for improving the presentation and accessibility of the paper, though,
which the authors should take into account when making their revisions:
1. The paper should make clear, from the outset, that this is a position/vision paper, even though
it may already have good ideas about technical architecture and realisations. As I understand,
there is no prototype for this available at present?
2. There is a fleeting reference to a proprietary framework, which seems to be worth or required
to expand. E.g. is there encumbered IP or other IPR issues connected to that, which may
complicate the creation and operation of the DTC?
3. Introduction could end with stating the key insights/recommendations/etc. of the paper.
4. The figures should be integrated into the main text, also in Section 2, subsections (a) and (b)
should at their beginning already point to the respective architecture figures.
5. It may even be a good idea to write a new short section (between the current sections 1 and 2)
that gives some background on asset-backed currencies, demurrage, and similar concepts that
underpin or motivate the proposal technical work. This may also move some of the subsequent
material into such a focused section.
6. Section 4 seems very short, perhaps integrate this into Section 5?
7. It would be good to have a subsection or similar focused piece of text that talks a bit about the
perceived threat model of DTC and how the envisioned architecture and choices of DLT can deal
with such threats.
8. It would be good to begin Section 5 with 1-2 sentences that say that you here report findings of
a 'requirement analysis and elicitation' - to use software engineering speak. When I read that
section, I was struck by the decision to separate three concerns into separate ledgers, with comms
between them. This seems key design decision that should perhaps be mentioned or discussed in
earlier parts of the paper already.
Please also vet the grammar of the paper, there are a couple of places in which articles and such
are missing, I highlight the ones I detected:
p.2,l.24: "based on" should be "based on a"
p.3, l.19: "approach offer" should be "approach on offer"
throughout: "Bitcoin ecosystem" should read "the Bitcoin ecosystem" ?
p.3, l.58: "on finding the" should read "on finding a" since a PoW nonce is not unique
p4, l.14.: "Thus, the immutability ..." this sentence does not seem to have a verb
3
p.7, l.10: "take place a" should read "take place until a"
p.7, l.36: "The chose" should read "The choice"
p.7, l.48: "has to proceed" should read "have to proceed" , refers to "participants"
p.8, l. 27: "have sell" should read "have to sell"
Other detailed comments:
p.4: "a Bitcoin is itself just a long chain of transactions"; this seems a bit misleading, as this
suggests that coins travel along transactions, whereas they are just amounts that can be split up in
inputs and outputs of transactions any which way (in multiplies of the minimal atomic value)
Section 3, first line: I would spell out CBDC here as well, to remind the reader of the meaning of
that acronym
same page: on demurrage, it would be good to also state what advantages this has over interest
in terms of short-term vs. long-term behavior
Coin annihilation: how would you want to do that? is that conceptually similar to renovation of a
cryptographic credential such as a key?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The paper describes the introduction of the digital trade coin (DTC), a new asset-backed
cryptocurrency, combining recent technological developments with well-established practices.
4
The declared goal is to have a digital currency that
combines properties of physical cash with enhanced qualities such as anonymity, usability on the
web, and so on, usable for international trade markets.
Technically the proposal relies on the usage of e-Cash solution presented by Chaum and on an
architecture extending the exchanges among users, administrators, and participants.
The paper is interesting and discusses some hot topics in the field of cryptocurrency, debate of
asset-backing currencies is reported in many online discussions.
There are some points that should be clarified, to improve the overall quality of the paper:
-The disucssion on how the presented platform achieves all or a part of the goals reported in (e)
should be enhanced
-The paper refers to three ledgers, and after presenting the properties of some current ledger
(Bitcoin, Ripple) it ggenerically refers to one ledger as an abstract system; it should be clarified
how and which ledger is selected; connection and releations among the thrree ledgeres better
discussed;
-at the end the stabilization mechanisms presenetd in (d) seem to be released to trusted agents,
but ledgers and digital currencies should be well behaving withotu any trust (or with some
reduce trust) for the agents: this point should be better discussed
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180155.R0)
29-May-2018
Dear Dr Hardjono
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180155 entitled
"Digital Trade Coin (DTC): Towards a more stable digital currency" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
5
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180155
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 07-Jun-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
6
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
7
on behalf of Dr Michael Huth (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Editor Comments to Author (Dr Michael Huth):
Please take account of the useful reviewer comments, especially regarding the clarity of
presentation. It should be entirely at your discretion to decide how minor your changes should
be, given these reviews.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I really like the ideas behind this paper, and its noble goals of offering solutions to digital
currencies that would be more stable. The topic is also an important one, in the DLT context, and
would be a nice fit and contribution to the thematic BCT issue.
I do have some suggestions for improving the presentation and accessibility of the paper, though,
which the authors should take into account when making their revisions:
1. The paper should make clear, from the outset, that this is a position/vision paper, even though
it may already have good ideas about technical architecture and realisations. As I understand,
there is no prototype for this available at present?
2. There is a fleeting reference to a proprietary framework, which seems to be worth or required
to expand. E.g. is there encumbered IP or other IPR issues connected to that, which may
complicate the creation and operation of the DTC?
3. Introduction could end with stating the key insights/recommendations/etc. of the paper.
4. The figures should be integrated into the main text, also in Section 2, subsections (a) and (b)
should at their beginning already point to the respective architecture figures.
5. It may even be a good idea to write a new short section (between the current sections 1 and 2)
that gives some background on asset-backed currencies, demurrage, and similar concepts that
underpin or motivate the proposal technical work. This may also move some of the subsequent
material into such a focused section.
6. Section 4 seems very short, perhaps integrate this into Section 5?
7. It would be good to have a subsection or similar focused piece of text that talks a bit about the
perceived threat model of DTC and how the envisioned architecture and choices of DLT can deal
with such threats.
8. It would be good to begin Section 5 with 1-2 sentences that say that you here report findings of
a 'requirement analysis and elicitation' - to use software engineering speak. When I read that
section, I was struck by the decision to separate three concerns into separate ledgers, with comms
between them. This seems key design decision that should perhaps be mentioned or discussed in
earlier parts of the paper already.
8
Please also vet the grammar of the paper, there are a couple of places in which articles and such
are missing, I highlight the ones I detected:
p.2,l.24: "based on" should be "based on a"
p.3, l.19: "approach offer" should be "approach on offer"
throughout: "Bitcoin ecosystem" should read "the Bitcoin ecosystem" ?
p.3, l.58: "on finding the" should read "on finding a" since a PoW nonce is not unique
p4, l.14.: "Thus, the immutability ..." this sentence does not seem to have a verb
p.7, l.10: "take place a" should read "take place until a"
p.7, l.36: "The chose" should read "The choice"
p.7, l.48: "has to proceed" should read "have to proceed" , refers to "participants"
p.8, l. 27: "have sell" should read "have to sell"
Other detailed comments:
p.4: "a Bitcoin is itself just a long chain of transactions"; this seems a bit misleading, as this
suggests that coins travel along transactions, whereas they are just amounts that can be split up in
inputs and outputs of transactions any which way (in multiplies of the minimal atomic value)
Section 3, first line: I would spell out CBDC here as well, to remind the reader of the meaning of
that acronym
same page: on demurrage, it would be good to also state what advantages this has over interest
in terms of short-term vs. long-term behavior
Coin annihilation: how would you want to do that? is that conceptually similar to renovation of a
cryptographic credential such as a key?
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The paper describes the introduction of the digital trade coin (DTC), a new asset-backed
cryptocurrency, combining recent technological developments with well-established practices.
The declared goal is to have a digital currency that
combines properties of physical cash with enhanced qualities such as anonymity, usability on the
web, and so on, usable for international trade markets.
Technically the proposal relies on the usage of e-Cash solution presented by Chaum and on an
architecture extending the exchanges among users, administrators, and participants.
The paper is interesting and discusses some hot topics in the field of cryptocurrency, debate of
asset-backing currencies is reported in many online discussions.
There are some points that should be clarified, to improve the overall quality of the paper:
9
-The disucssion on how the presented platform achieves all or a part of the goals reported in (e)
should be enhanced
-The paper refers to three ledgers, and after presenting the properties of some current ledger
(Bitcoin, Ripple) it ggenerically refers to one ledger as an abstract system; it should be clarified
how and which ledger is selected; connection and releations among the thrree ledgeres better
discussed;
-at the end the stabilization mechanisms presenetd in (d) seem to be released to trusted agents,
but ledgers and digital currencies should be well behaving withotu any trust (or with some
reduce trust) for the agents: this point should be better discussed
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180155.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180155.R1)
18-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Hardjono,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Digital Trade Coin (DTC): Towards a
more stable digital currency" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
10
on behalf of Dr Michael Huth (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Michael Huth):
Many thanks for having taken on board the comments from both reviewers, we appreciate your
effort and willingness to contribute to this thematic issue.
pendix A
Digital Trade Coin (DTC): Towards a more stable digital currency
Alex Lipton Thomas Hardjono Alex Pentland
MIT Connection Science
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cambridge, MA, USA
emails: alexander.lipton@gmail.com hardjono@mit.edu sandy@media.mit.edu
June 4, 2018
Abstract
We study the evolution of ideas related to creation of asset-backed currencies over the last
two hundred years and argue that recent developments related to distributed ledger technologies
and blockchains gives asset-backed currencies a new lease of life. We propose a practical mecha-
nism combining novel technological breakthroughs with well-established hedging techniques for
building an asset-backed transactional oriented cryptocurrency, which we call the digital trade
coin (DTC). We show that in its mature state, the DTC can serve as a much needed counter-
point to fiat reserve currencies of today.
Introduction
s paper describes the concept of the asset-backed Digital Trade Coins (DTCs), currently un-
development at MIT [1]. It outlines an approach to building a consortium of sponsors, who
tribute real assets, a narrow bank handling financial transactions involving fiat currencies, and
administrator, who issues the corresponding digital token in exchange for fiat payments and
es fiat payments in exchange for digital tokens. In short, our proposal is to apply distributed
er technology to give a new lease of life to the old notion of a sound asset-backed currency,
to use this currency as a transactional tool for a large pool of potential users, including small
medium enterprises (SME) and individuals. We intend to build a currency, which encourages
timate commerce, but makes illegal activities difficult. Our contribution should be viewed as a
tion/vision paper, since at the moment there is no working prototype for the DTC.
We wish to replace physical cash with a supranational digital token, which is insulated from
erse actions by central banks and other parties, due to the fact that it is asset-backed. We believe
DTC is ideally suited as a medium of exchange for groups of smaller nations or supranational
nizations, who wish to use it a counterweight to large reserve currencies.
Supranational currencies have been known for two millennia. For instance, Roman, and later
antine and Iranian gold coins were used along the entire Silk Road; Spanish and Austrian silver
1
s were prevalent medium of exchange in the Age of Sail. Closer to our time, the British Pound
used as reserve currency for the British Empire and, to a lesser degree, the rest of the world;
Dollar and the Pound were used as a reserve currency basket for the world economy in the 20th
tury, to which the Euro and the Yen were added in late 20th Century; and now the Yuan might
sed along a revived Silk Road.
Today, for the first time ever, there is a possibility of designing a digital currency that combines
best features of both physical cash and digital currencies, including finality of settlement, partial
nymity, and usability on the web. This currency is largely immune to policies of central banks
control the worlds’ reserve currencies. Such a currency has enormous potential to improve the
ility and competitiveness of trading and natural resource producing economies. In the DTC
propose to develop a trade-oriented asset-backed digital currency, aimed at facilitating interna-
al trade and making it as seamless as possible. This currency will be based on a proprietary
ework combining the most recent advances in blockchain and distributed ledger technology,
tography, and secure multi-party calculations, together with time-tested methods for prevent-
double spending. In view of the fact that our framework relies in part on our own research and
art on ideas readily available in public domain, we don’t anticipate specific intellectual property
t issues. Unlike Bitcoin, it will be fast, scalable, and environmentally friendly. It will also be
saction friendly because of its low volatility vs fiat currencies, not to mention cryptocurrencies.
Over the past decade, potential advantages and disadvantages of distributed ledgers or blockchains,
e been discussed by numerous researchers (see, e.g., [2] and references therein). While numerous
ential applications of blockchains have been entertained in the literature – including title deeds,
t-trade processing, trade finance, rehypothecation, and syndicated loans, to mention but a few,
e main usage of blockchains has so far been in the general area of payments, more specifically
tocurrencies.
World-wide interest in distributed ledgers was ignited by Bitcoin, which is a cryptocurrency
ocol operating without a central authority. It was described first in the seminal white paper
S. Nakamoto [3]. Since then Bitcoin has inspired creation of more than a thousand of other
tocurrencies, all with various degree of novelty and utility (if any). One of the most promising is
ereum, which is significantly more versatile than Bitcoin, not least because is supports so-called
rt contracts, [4]. Another interesting and popular cryptocurrency protocol is Ripple [5]. The
ple system departs of the Nakamoto consensus approach. It is not truly decentralized because
oes not rely on the thousands of anonymous (pseudonymous) mining nodes that form the peer-
eer network underlying Bitcoin. Instead, the Ripple system uses a small set of nodes that act
e like notaries, validating transactions at a higher throughput and much lower cost compared to
oin. Unlike Bitcoin, most entities in the system are known and not anonymous. By their very
ure, all of these currencies are native tokens, residing on a blockchain. Their transition from one
nomic agent to the next is controlled by the set of rules that are inherent or “hardwired” in the
kchain setup and are needed to maintain the integrity of their blockchain as a whole. However,
l now, attempts to build tokens backed by real-world assets – first and foremost, fiat currencies
ve been unsuccessful. Yet, until this all important problem is solved, in is virtually impossible
ake cryptocurrencies a part of the mainstream financial infrastructure, because otherwise the
rent volatility of cryptocurrencies will severely curtail their usability.
Although potential application of distributed ledgers mentioned earlier, such as post-trade pro-
ing and trade finance, are very important, they are technical in nature and lack the revolutionary
it. However, a distributed ledger can potentially play a truly transformative role and bring a
2
matic departure from the past by making Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) and stable
tocurrencies a reality.
In the current work we propose a stable asset-backed cryptocurrency which we refer to as DTC.
an be viewed as a natural extension of a fiat-backed cryptocurrency called the Utility Settlement
n (USC), see [6]. Setting aside operational aspects of gathering and managing collateral assets,
need to design a ledger associated with value transfers. Since, by design, Nakamoto’s approach
either scalable, nor efficient, we need to use a different design. Our analysis indicates that
bining blockchain with an earlier approach for issuing electronic cash (e-Cash), developed by
um [7, 8], seems to be promising. Recall that Chaum introduced a blind signature procedure
converting bank deposits into anonymous cash. On the one hand, Chaum’s protocol is much
aper, faster and more efficient compared to Bitcoin. It also offers an avenue towards true
nymity and unlinkability (as in paper cash), as compared to the weak pseudonymity of Bitcoin.
ue anonymity is not desired, there are variations on the Chaum approach on offer, for instance,
nymity for the purchaser but not for seller, and so forth. However, on the other hand the basic
um model and many of its variants rely on the integrity of the issuing bank. To alleviate this
e we propose the use of blockchain technology itself to track the relevant transaction parameters,
ucing the opportunity for parties to be dishonest. Payments are still direct between users as in
um’s proposal.
In the DTC we propose a solution to the stable cryptocurrency problem, which boils down to
mbling a pool of assets, contributed by sponsors, appointing an administrator, who will manage
pool, and digitizing the ownership rights on this pool. In addition, we build a special-purpose
row bank, which facilitates activities of the administrator. By construction neither the pool
f, nor the supporting bank can fail due to market and liquidity risks. Their operations are
amlined as much as possible to limit operational risks. It is worth noting that operational
s are always present; this statement is true not only for the setup we are proposing, but for an
nary cash and bank deposits too, not to mention cryptocurrencies, which are notorious for their
rational risk exposures. The narrow bank receives fiat currency submitted by the users, passes
o the administrator, and ultimately, to sponsors, while the administrator issues digital tokens
eturn. These tokens will circulate within the group of users in a fast and efficient manner by
zing distributed ledger mechanism, thus creating native tokens proportionally convertible into
underlying assets at will. Their value is maintained in a relatively narrow band around the
e of the underlying asset pool, with lower bound enforced by arbitrage, while the upper bound
rced by the administrator assisted by sponsors.
The key insight of the paper is that the properly designed DTC can serve as an international
rve currency remaining stable in the long run and serving as a much needed counterbalance to
currencies issued by individual nations, which can be easily affected by their respective central
ks.
The paper is organized as follows. Background on asset-backed currencies is discussed in Section
esign of Bitcoin and Ripple, including their similarities and differences, is outlined Section 3.
DC and closely related USC are discussed in Section 4, respectively. DTC is discussed in Section
onclusions are drawn in Section 6.
3
Asset-backed Currencies
idea of anchoring value of paper currency in baskets of real assets is old, see, e.g., [29]. Gold
silver as well as bimetallic standards have been used for centuries to achieve this goal.
Two approaches are common: (A) a redeemable currency backed by a basket of commodities;
a tabular standard currency indexed to a basket of commodities.
Lowe, [30], was the first to explain how to use a tabular standard of value to the price inflation;
milar plan based on a basket of 50 commodities was developed by Scrope, [31]. Jevons, [32],
hed these ideas (much) further and proposed an indexation scheme based on a basket of a 100
modities; while Marshall, [33], proposed a similar tabular standard.
Inspired by developments during the Great Depression, F. Graham, [34], developed an automatic
ntercyclical policy based on 100 percent backing of bank deposits by commodities and goods,
le B. Graham, [35], proposed backing the USD with a commodity basket at 60% and gold at
. Hayek, [36], advocated establishing a universal basket of commodities, which every country
ld use to back its currency. Roughly at the same time, Keynes, [37], designed an international
-linked multilateral transaction currency, which he called the bancor. Unfortunately, his ideas
e discarded by the architects of the Bretton Woods system.
After the WWII, interest in commodity-based currencies has been lukewarm. Still, Kaldor, [38],
posed a new commodity reserve currency, which he also called bancor. More recently, Zhou, [39],
posed a new international reserve currency anchored to a stable commodity basket benchmark.
The choice of the actual asset basket backing DTC is not an easy one. It is partly dictated by the
position of the sponsors’ pool and partly by what assets they actually possess and are willing
ontribute. For instance, depending on their resources and abilities, sponsors can contribute oil,
, base metals, and agricultural commodities. Given that storage of significant amounts of the
ve is difficult and costly, it is natural to use collateral, which is in storage already, thus making
ed commodities economically productive.
Existing Cryptocurrencies
Bitcoin
e its first announcement in 2008 Bitcoin [3] has captured the imagination of the public by
posing the first cryptographic electronic currency having no intrinsic value, issued without cen-
authority, and capable of peer-to-peer digital transfers. Anyone can join the Bitcoin ecosystem,
ch is both a strength and a weakness.
Because it’s currently the best-known form of cryptocurrency, it’s worth exploring how Bitcoin
ks. Financial transactions are made directly between users, without the help by designated
rmediaries. Transactions are publicly broadcast and recorded in a “blockchain ledger”, which
be seen by all participants. Once a transaction is broadcast, the so-called “miners” come into
. They aggregate individual transactions into blocks (currently of about 2000 transactions
), verify them to ensure that there is no double spend by competitively providing proof of work
W), and receive mining rewards in bitcoins (BTCs). The proof of work is based on finding a
tographic nonce making the hash value of the candidate block of transactions lower than a
n threshold. As such, the “hash power” (i.e. hardware and software processing capacity) of a
e makes a difference in the likelihood of the node finding the match.
4
It is assumed (but not proven) that there are sufficiently many honest miners, so that collusion
ng them (known as 51% attack) in not possible. A transaction is considered to be confirmed
ere are at least six new blocks built on the top on the block to which it belongs. The Bitcoin
ystem is not without very serious issues – it can handle no more than 7 transactions per second
Visa which can handle more than 20000 transactions per second), and it consumes enormous
unts of electricity used by miners (by virtue of underlying PoW computation). Thus, the
utability of Bitcoin’s blockchain ledger and the prevention of double spending is achieved
ugh mining based on PoW.
In view of the above, bitcoins themselves are just unspent transactions outputs of a long chain
ransactions, which can be traced all the way back to the time when it was minted, either to the
first “genesis” block, or as part of a “coinbase” transaction included in a block by a successful
er. Bitcoin architecture is shown in Figure 1 (a).
Since Bitcoin’s inception in 2009, its price has gone up several orders of magnitude, making it
darling of speculators across the globe. However, a word of caution is in order. Since Bitcoin
no value, it can have any price, hence one should not be surprised if its price falls dramatically.
er than for speculative purposes, Bitcoin’s uses are rather limited, because its price versus the
dollar and other fiat currencies is extremely volatile, which prevents it from becoming a medium
ransaction. In addition, in spite of claims to the opposite, Bitcoin transaction costs are very
and growing.
Although Bitcoin may not be the disruptive force as its supporters are claiming, its underpinning
ributed ledger technology has a clear potential to transform the financial ecosystem as a whole.
Ripple
ple is a money transfer protocol; ripple is the underlying native currency. It is completely
rent from Bitcoin. For starters, ripples are preminted, while bitcoins are mined. In fact, Ripple
ot decentralized at all. The stated purpose of the protocol is to facilitate fiat currency transfers
ng participating banks. However, due to the fact that there is a native token, Ripple can be
d along the line of Bitcoin as well. Details of how Ripple works are given in various Ripple
motional materials including their white paper [5].
The main ingredients of the Ripple ecosystem can be summarized as follows: (A) Servers, which
ntain the ledger; (B) Clients, who can initiate transactions; (C) Proposers, which can be any
er; and (D) the Unique Nodes List (UNL), indicating parties, which can be trusted by the
icipants in the protocol.
The life cycle of a single transaction consists of several steps. First, a transaction is created and
ed by an account owner. Second, this transaction is submitted to the network; If it is badly
ed, this transaction may be rejected immediately; otherwise it is provisionally included in the
er. Validating nodes propose new ledger. Transmitting nodes broadcast it to the network.
sensus is achieved by voting of the validators. The result of a successful consensus round is a
dated ledger. If a consensus round fails, the consensus process repeats until it succeeds. The
dated ledger includes the transaction and its effects on the ledger state.
Ripple consensus assumptions are:(A1) Every non-faulty Server makes decision in finite time;
) All non-faulty Servers arrive at the same decision; (A3) Both true and false decision regarding
ven transaction are possible.
Ripple Protocol Consensus Algorithm (RPCA) works in rounds: (A) Initially, every Server
piles a list of valid candidate transactions; (B) Each Server amalgamates all candidates coming
5
its UNL and votes on their veracity; (C) Transactions passing the minimum threshold are
ed to the next round; (D) The final round requires 80% agreement. In general, RPCA works
, however, it can fail provided that validating nodes form cliques, which cannot agree with each
er. Ripple architecture is shown in Figure 1 (b).
CBDC and USC
CBDC
ld and Should Central Banks Issue Central Bank Digital Currency? Recently, a previously
demic question of feasibility and desirability of CBDC came to the fore, see, e.g., [9] - [20]. By
ing CBDC, states can abandon physical cash in favor of its electronic equivalent and replace a
e chunk of government debt with it. The impact on society at large will be huge, [21]. CBDC
obviate the need for fractional banking and dramatically improve the stability of the financial
em as a whole. On the other hand, the ability of the banking sector to create money “out of
air” by making loans will be significantly curtailed and transferred to central banks. It is clear
developments in this direction are inevitable, but their timing and magnitude are uncertain.
Interest in CBDC has been ignited by two unrelated factors - the introduction of Bitcoin,
a persistence of negative interest rates in some developed countries. In Medieval Europe
ative interests existed in the form of demurrage for centuries. Recall that demurrage is a tax
monetary wealth. In principle, demurrage encourages spending money, rather than hoarding it,
s accelerating economic activity. The idea of demurrage was reborn shortly after the WWI in the
of scrip money, which requires paying of periodic tax to stay in circulation. Scrip money was
posed by the German-Argentinian entrepreneur and economist S. Gesell, [22], whose idea was
ated by Irving Fisher during the great depression, [23]. Demurrage was thought to be a suitable
acement for mild inflation. Since in the modern economy demurrage is hard to orchestrate due
he presence of paper currency, its conversion into the electronic form is necessary for making
ously negative rates a reality, [15].
Currently, there are three approaches to creating CBDC on a large scale:
(A) Economic agents, from enterprises to private individuals, can be given accounts with central
ks. However, in this case, central banks would have to execute know your customer (KYC) and
-money laundering (AML) functions, tasks which they are not equipped to perform. Besides,
er duress, rational economic agents might abandon their commercial bank accounts and move
r funds to central bank accounts, thus massively destabilizing the entire financial system.
(B) Inspired by Bitcoin, [3], CBDC can be issued as a token on an unpermissioned distributed
er, whose integrity is maintained by designated notaries receiving payments for their services,
e.g., [24]. Given that notary efforts do not require mining and hence are significantly cheaper
faster than that of Bitcoin miners, this construct is scalable and can satisfy needs of the
le economy. Users are pseudo-anonymous, since they are represented by their public keys.
e at any moment there is an immutable record showing the balance of every public key, it is
sible to deanonymize transactions by using various inversion techniques applied to their recorded
sactions, [25], thus maintaining AML requirements.
(C) A central bank can follow the Chaumian scheme, [7, 8], and issue numbered and blind
ed currency units onto a distributed ledger, whose trust is maintained either by designated
6
aries or by the bank itself. In this case it would have to rely on commercial banks, directly or
rectly, for satisfying the KYC/AML requirements.
To summarize, by using modern technology it is possible to abolish paper currency and introduce
DC. On the positive side, CBDC can be used to alleviate some of the societal ills and eliminate
s of handling physical cash, which are of order of 1% of the country’s GDP. It can help the
anked to participate in the digital economy, thus positively affecting the society at large. On
negative side, it can give central authorities too much power over the economy and privacy,
ch can potentially be misused.
While CBDC is absolutely stable with respect to the underlying fiat currency, it does not make
fiat currency stable in itself. For that we need a carefully constructed DTC.
USC
DC is technically possible but politically complicated. Hence several alternatives have been
posed. One promising venue is USC, which is developed by a consortium of banks and a fintech
tup called Clearmatics.1 Initially, USC can be an internal token for a consortium of participating
ks. These coins have to be fully collateralized by electronic cash balances of these banks, which
held by the Central Bank itself. Eventually, these coins can be circulated among a larger group
articipants. However, in this case, issuance of USCs has to be outsourced to a narrow bank,
ch can perform the all-important KYC and AML functions.
Recall that a narrow bank has assets, which include solely marketable low-risk securities and
ral bank cash in an amount exceeding its deposit base as per the regulatory prescribed capital
hion, see, e.g., [26] among many others. As a result, such a bank is impervious against credit and
idity shocks. However, as any other firm, it can be affected by operational failures, including
d, computer hacking, inability to solve the KYC/AML problem, etc. These failures can be
imized, but not eliminated, by virtue of using proper modern technology. Accordingly, narrow
k deposits would be as close to the fiat currency, as technically possible.2 Ideally, one narrow
k per fiat currency is required. Further details are given in [6].
USC is helpful from a technical perspective, but it does not solve issues of monetary policy. We
h to address this issue by building a counterweight for fiat currencies by backing the DTC by a
l of real assets.
Survivability of CBDC and USC
idea that a blockchain system can withstand a concerted attack simply because it consists of
sically distributed nodes is an untested and unproven proposition. The possible types of attacks
blockchain system has been discussed elsewhere, and consists of a broad spectrum. These range
classic network-level attacks (e.g. network partitions; distributed denial of service; etc.) to
e sophisticated attacks targeting the particular blockchain-specific constructs (eg. consensus
lementations; ), to targeting specific implementations of mining nodes or notaries (e.g. code
erabilities; viruses; etc.). An attack on a blockchain system may not need to cripple it entirely
The lead author is a member of their advisory board
As always, Shakespeare put it best:
“Neither a borrower nor a lender be, for loan oft loses both itself and friend, and borrowing dulls the
edges of husbandry.” Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 3
7
degradation in its overall service quality (e.g. slower transaction throughput) maybe sufficient
isincline users to use the system.
The notion of interoperability across blockchain systems is an important one in the light of
ivability [42]. The Internet was able to expand and allowed autonomous systems (i.e. routing
ains) to interconnect with one another due to good design principles. The design philosophy
he Internet is based on three (3) fundamental goals, namely (i) network survivability (Internet
munications must continue despite loss of networks or gateways); (ii) variety of service types
e Internet must support multiple types of communications service); and (iii) variety of networks
e Internet must accommodate a variety of networks). We believe the same fundamental goals
t be adopted for the current development of blockchain technology – and more specifically they
t drive the technological selection for the implementations of the DTC architecture.
DTC Design Principles and Requirements
DTC: Motivations
oin and Ripple protocols can be used as a prototype for a distributed ledger based cryptocur-
y more suitable for transactional financial purposes. Several issues, some technical and some
nomical, have to be addressed before this goal can be achieved:
(A) The KYC problem has to be formulated and articulated and a suitable framework for
ing it has to be designed;
(B) An AML mechanism has to be developed;
(C) A highly efficient method for maintaining consensus on the ledger, with the industrial
ngth transactions per second (TpS) capabilities, has to be built;
(D) A transparent and economically meaningful system for issuing new DTCs and retiring the
ting ones has to be implemented;
(E) And, most importantly, a satisfactory mechanism for making DTC a stable cryptocurrency
to be designed.
Although public ledgers are not truly anonymous, but rather pseudonymous, it is difficult to
them in the KYC/AML compliant fashion. Accordingly, the DTC ledger has to be made semi-
ate (but probably not private) in order to solve the KYC/AML problem. At the same time,
ght balance has to be struck between privacy and accountability, so that excessive restrictions
uld not impede the flow of legitimate commerce.
In order to achieve the level of speed and efficiency we are aspiring for, including TpS of order
ral thousand, the Ripple-style consensus protocol has to be used. Following Ripple’s approach,
choose a group of notaries, who are known in advance and properly licensed. These notaries
responsible for performing ledger updates and maintaining its integrity by ensuring Byzantine
t tolerance, see, e.g., [27, 28]. For their services notaries are paid a small fee, say a percentage
he transaction amount they approve, which is naturally denominated in DTC, so that their
mercial interests are aligned with their functions. If notaries stay inactive, or systematically
rove invalid transactions, they are financially penalized. In each round, validators create their
versions of the ledger, and propose these to the rest of the group. Several rounds of voting
place until a super-majority candidate ledger is selected. This approach is similar in spirit to
well-known Paxos algorithm. In order to increase TpS number, we use the idea of sharding and
8
gn individual notaries to particular sets of addresses. In this setup, a quorum verifies its own
d, while the full ledger is assembled out of the corresponding shards.
The DTC architecture recognizes that there are two or three types of application-level transac-
s commonly found in many blockchain implementation. The first is the one-party recording of
ts to the ledger. Logically the DTC represents this on an assets ledger. The second type is the
-party transferral transaction, exemplified by the transferral of coins from one party to another.
DTC captures these logically on the coins ledger. The third type of transaction is the off-chain
sferal of value (i.e. eCash) in a privacy-preserving manner. Here the goal is to allow a limited
unt of coin-backed anonymous eCash to be transferred from one user to another, following the
sic Chaum approach. Relevant parameters of the eCash flow are recorded on the DTC tracking
er in order to reduce the opportunity of fraud by entities involved in the eCash flows.
This design decision of recognizing the three types of application-level transactions provides the
adest flexibility for the DTC architecture to be tailored for specific use-cases, and for different
lementations of the three ledgers to be chosen according to the requirements of the use-case.
Creation and Annihilation of DTC
now, we shall consider this pool and its associated narrow bank as given, and describe the
tion and annihilation mechanisms for the DTC. New coins are injected in the distributed ledger
irtue of the following mechanism. During the initial stage, participants who wish to acquire a
hly minted DTC have to proceed as follows. First, they have to have a conventional fiat account,
ch can be held either directly with the narrow bank or with their commercial bank. Second,
have to open an initially empty wallet ready to accept DTCs. Third, participants transfer the
red amount of fiat currency to the narrow bank. Fourth, the narrow bank transfers these funds
ponsors who, in turn, release some of the DTCs created when the asset pool is built to the
l administrator. Fifth, the administrator transfers the corresponding DTCs from its public key
ress to the public key address provided by the participant. Thus, in effect, participant becomes
areholder in the pool administrator. Subsequently, participants can acquire DTCs from other
icipants in exchange for goods and services, so that a newly born DTC starts its journey from
address represented by a public key to the next, until it is annihilated by a participant sending
o the administrator in exchange for cash. When a participant in the ledger wishes to receive
currency for their DTC, they transfer DTCs from their public key to the public key of the
inistrator, who, in turn, sells an appropriate proportion of the assets, deposits proceeds with
associated narrow bank, which, in turn, credits fiat currency either to the account on its own
er or to a designated account in a different bank. The corresponding DTCs are destroyed by
ding them to the “terminal” public key without a private key.
As a result, the administrator is in possession of real assets, sponsors with fiat currency, general
lic with DTCs, which can always be converted into fiat at the current market price.
Mechanisms of Stabilization of DTC
ally, the value of the DTC is kept relatively stable by virtue of the independent actions of
icipants and the administrator. If the value of a DTC goes below the value of the fraction of
asset pool it represents, which we call its intrinsic value, then rational economic agents will turn
ack to the administrator in exchange for cash. If, on the other hand, the market value starts to
iate upward compared to the intrinsic, then, after a certain threshold is breached, the sponsors
9
contribute more assets to the pool, which can come from their own sources or be purchased on
open market, in exchange for DTCs, which they will sell on the open market, thus pushing the
ket price of DTCs down. These two complementary mechanisms can keep the market price of
DTC in a bank around the market price of the underlying basket.
More precisely, the price PDT C of DTC will be close to (but not exactly at) the market price
he corresponding asset pool, PM . Indeed, if PDT C falls significantly below PM , economic
nts will put DTC back to the administrator, who will have to sell a fraction of the pool’s
ts for cash and pass the proceeds to these agents. If PDT C increases significantly above PM ,
nsors will supply more assets to the administrator, who will issue additional DTC and pass
m to sponsors, who will sell them for cash, just pushing the price down. This mechanism
ures that |PDT C - PM |/PM  1, a very desirable feature, especially compared for conventional
tocurrencies, habitually exhibiting extreme volatility. At the same time, outright manipulation
entral banks is not possible either.
Note that the notion of economic agents (e.g. sponsors with assets) is distinct from system
ties (e.g. notaries) in the DTC architecture (see below).
System Design Principles
rder for DTC to be a stable and durable digital currency that can store value as well as provide
ty, there are a number of principles driving its architecture. The DTC architecture seeks to be a
eprint” that allows the DTC to be implementable for various use cases. Some uses cases which
e been identified are: (i) a reserve digital currency shared by a number of geopolitically diverse
ll countries, as a means to provide local financial stability; (ii) a digital currency operating for
rrow-bank that can provide relative stability during financially volatile periods. A number of
em design principles are as follows:
• Unambiguous identifiability and ownership: Assets (represented digitally), coins and eCash
must be uniquely identifiable, and have unambiguous ownership at any given time. A corollary
of true ownership is that these must be transferrable (portable) by its owner.
• Visibility into shared state: Entities in the ecosystem should have visibility into the state of
the DTC system and network, and have equal access to such information. More specifically,
this means visibility into the assets which back the issuance of coins, and visibility into the
circulation of coins and eCash.
• Mechanisms implementing monetary policies: In order for the DTC ecosystem to operate
according to the desired community behavior, there must be technical mechanisms that allow
agreed policies to be carried out in the system as a whole. Such mechanisms can be con-
trolled centrally (e.g. single entity), controlled in a group-oriented manner (e.g. consensus of
entities), or a combination of both (e.g. leader election protocols).
• Unambiguous authenticable identification of entities: Entities and system components must
be unambiguously identifiable and authenticable. This means that human participants, user-
driven devices, and network machines/nodes must each be authentically identifiable.
• Correct, accurate and unhindered system-wide reporting: System components that implement
DTC must each be unhindered in the reporting of its internal state. Furthermore, there
must be ways to validate reported state, so that misbehavior can be detected and acted
10
upon. Such misbehaviors can be the result of human or system error, degradation in system
components over time (hardware and software), or the result of active or passive compromises
(i.e. attacks).
The above system design principles borrow from a number key design principles underlying
Internet [42]. The need for unambiguous ownership of an asset is an obvious one. The DTC
s to use standard object identification solutions (e.g. GUID standard) for digital assets. The
l ownership of assets is a construct that is external to the DTC system, and as such must be
blished prior to assets being introduced by its legal owner (e.g. Sponsor) into a given DTC
loyment.
The principle of visibility is driven by the need for entities in a DTC implementation to have
al access to data, and is implemented through the assets ledger and coins ledger. The Con-
ium Administration (see below) must have full visibility into all operational aspects of a given
C implementation. Certain DTC implementations may restrict visibility of parts of the systems
. assets ledger) to entities that have “skin in the game” (e.g. Sponsors who have actual assets
he DTC assets ledger).
A key aspect of the success of a DTC implementation is the ability of the Consortium to carry
monetary policies and other governance rules in the system as a whole. Technical mechanism
be implemented as “hooks” or control-points through which policy decisions are executed. For
mple, a DTC implementation may require that each Sponsor have assets (in the assets ledger)
ve a given threshold (i.e. reserve ratio) at all times. The actual value of the threshold should
ynamically adjustable according to the Consortium-agreed policies and be carried out by the
sortium Administration as the appointed authority. In this case, the Consortium Administra-
can transmit a special “policy implementation” transaction (to the assets ledger and coins
er) setting the new threshold value. Notaries observe such policy decisions by declining an
t-to-coin conversion transaction from a Sponsor if it causes the Sponsor’s asset reserves to dip
w the new threshold value.
Key to the operation of a DTC implementation is the ability of entities to identify and au-
ticate each other. We believe this is closely related to the principle of system-wide reporting.
e DTC implementation may choose to deploy advanced cryptographic techniques that provide
nymity and untraceability of entities. However, such features must still satisfy the principle of
mbiguous identifiably and mutual authentication.
Sponsors, Consortium and Users
re are a number of active (human-driven) entities in the DTC ecosystem (Figure 2):
• Sponsor : A sponsor is an entity who supplies assets to the DTC ecosystem in return for
coins. The community of sponsors forms a consortium (see below) tasked with the various
management aspects of coins and e-Cash in the ecosystem.
• Consortium: A community of sponsors forms a consortium, operating under an agreed gov-
ernance model that specifies the legal, business and technical operational rules of members
of the consortium. In essence, the consortium is a network of sponsors who are participating
in the DTC ecosystem.
11
Additionally, a Consortium Administration carries out the monetary policies of the member-
ship of the consortium. The consortium administration is legally empowered by the consor-
tium membership to implement (centralized) control over certain system functions.
• Users: A user is an entity that obtains eCash from the consortium for the purpose of payments
for goods and services from other users.
DTC architecture is shown in Figure 1 (c).
Logical Functions
DTC architecture logically separates functions into those pertaining to assets, coins and eCash.
e we use the term ledger generically without calling out specific realizations, to allow focus on
cal functions that meet the system design principles stated above.
Specific technical implementations of the ledger may include a distributed database system, a
r-to-peer network of nodes, a fully distributed blockchain system, or even an append-only single
abase system.
• Assets management: Visibility into the assets which sponsors contribute in exchange for
coins represents a foundational requirement in DTC. DTC employs an assets registry and an
assets ledger (Figure 3). The registry records verified real-world assets that is associated to
a sponsor who forwards that asset to the consortium.
The assets ledger captures the binding between real-world assets (put forward by a sponsor)
and the amount of coins equivalent to (proportional to) those assets. The assets ledger also
records the proportion of coins that are in the consortium’s reserves and those that are in a
sponsor’s reserve. These coin-equivalents are considered to be non-circulation.
• Coin circulation: Allowing sponsors to exchange (i.e. sell or lend) with each other their asset-
backed coins represents a cornerstone of DTC. The coins ledger records the coin movements
and transactions in the DTC ecosystem (Figure 4). The coins ledger is used by sponsors and
the consortium administration. Sponsors exchange or “trade” coins with each other on this
ledger.
• eCash circulation: Providing stable digital currency to users also represents a cornerstone of
DTC. The eCash tracking ledger records the movement of eCash (i.e. cryptographic keys and
parameters) between users.
Each of the three ledgers in DTC are independent, but are connected in the sense that transac-
in one ledger may refer to (point to) recorded transactions in other ledgers. This independence
dgers is important not only from the perspective of technological choice (i.e. adoption of new
er technologies), but also crucial to the operational resilience of the system as a whole.
An example of the connection of the ledgers is the “pushing” (or pulling) of coins into (out of)
ulation by a Sponsor following the policies of a given DTC implementation. When a Sponsor
s to have its assets (on the assets ledger) be converted to coins and for the resulting coins to be
ssible by the Sponsor on the coins ledger, the Sponsor must transmit a push-transaction. This
lts in a transaction occurring on the assets ledger and a corresponding transaction occurring on
coins ledger. These two transactions – albeit on different ledgers – are related in that one refers
i.e. carries a hash of) another. In the push case, the transaction on the coins ledger points to
mpleted transaction on the assets ledger.
12
Converting Assets to Coins
purpose of the assets ledger together with the assets registry to satisfy the design principles
h regards to the conversion of real-world assets into its coin equivalent.
A key requirement here is the validation of the legal ownership of assets as claimed by a given
nsor. The sponsor must provide legal evidence in such a way that a digital representation of
evidence can be captured and presented within the assets ledger.
Examples of such evidence include a paper certificate and its digital representation that has
n digitally-signed by the issuer using legally acceptable digital-signature technology (e.g. Digital
ature Act of 2000). For example, a digital version of a gold certificate (e.g. unallocated gold)
d be signed by an authority and presented by a sponsor as evidence. It is the responsibility of
consortium administration to validate the evidence.
Coins for Sponsors
medium for sponsors to exchange coins with each other is the Coins Ledger. The notion here
at coins to be bought, lent and returned among sponsors on the ledger, providing transparency
visibility into the trading behavior of all sponsors in the DTC network.
Prior to having access to coins on this ledger, a sponsor must explicitly request the consortium
push” the sponsor’s coins from the assets ledger (from the sponsor’s reserves) into circulation
he coins ledger.
The consortium administration must respond to this request in an explicit manner (request
ted, denied or postponed) on the assets ledger. A request that is granted is followed by the
sortium administration transferring coins from its account on the coins ledger to the sponsor’s
unt on the same ledger.
This explicit request-response paradigm is a manifestation of the mechanism to implement
etary policies (as mentioned previously in Section 5.4). It is a “hook” into the system in which
consortium administration – as the representative of the community of sponsors – enforces
cies agreed to by the community.
A simple example of a monetary policy decision is the reserve ratio that must be met by each
nsor on the assets ledger. A sponsor that exhausts its reserves on the assets ledger, thereby
ating the policy of sponsors maintaining a minimum reserve, should not be granted a request
ush further coins into circulation on to the coins ledger.
A symmetric operation to pushing coins to the coins ledger is that of “pulling” coins from
ulation. This may occur when a sponsor wishes to enlarge its reserves on the assets ledger by
ing coins from the coins ledger to the assets ledger.
eCash for Users
hird important aspect of DTC is its use of eCash for users in the ecosystem. In general a user
istinguished from a sponsor in that a user does not possess assets in the consortium. The user
ains eCash in exchange for fiat currencies that are acceptable by the consortium. The goal of the
is to utilize a convenient and low-cost (zero-cost) eCash payment method, one that is stable
day-to-day basis and which can store value over a reasonably long period of time.
In DTC the entity that issues and redeems is the consortium itself. This ensures that the
ility of eCash is directly related to the stability of coins and assets in the consortium, all three
hich are under the monetary control of the consortium as a community.
13
The consortium as the issuer of eCash to a user enacts monetary policies that govern how much
sh a user can request specifically at any one time. More generally the consortium can govern
much eCash is permitted to be in circulation at any given moment in time, as a function of
total assets at the consortium.
The eCash tracking ledger (Figure 5) is used for the purposes of fraud-prevention, and does
hinder the flow of eCash as understood in the classical Chaum sense. Electronic cash – first
ned in 1981 by David Chaum [7] – employs a direct transfer paradigm between users, involving
delivery of a number of cryptographic parameters. Different variants or schemes of eCash (e.g.
8, 40]) deploy differing cryptographic parameters. As such, the purpose of the tracking ledger
record the cryptographic hash of these parameters with the goal of reducing fraud and error,
providing post-event audit and accountability.
Conclusions
his paper, we have discussed conceptual underpinnings and technical approaches to building
Cs. We have shown that DTCs have several decisive advantages compared to more established
tocurrencies, such as Bitcoin and Ripple. In addition to being a convenient transactional
tocurrencies for the internet era, DTCs can serve as important counterbalance to fiat currencies,
, when fully developed, can play the role of a supranational currency facilitating international
merce and allowing groups of small countries to create their own viable currencies.
As Dr. Zhou Xiaochan, Governor of the Peoples Bank of China stated in [39], “The desirable
of reforming the international monetary system, therefore, is to create an international reserve
ency that is independent from individual nations and is able to remain stable in the long
thus removing the inherent deficiencies caused by using credit-based national currencies.”
believe that DTC has the potential to provide such an international reserve currency for the
wing reasons: (A) DTC has real value, because its price is pinned to a representative basket
ommodities; (B) the price of the DTC vs a fiat currency has very low volatility compared to
er cryptocurrencies; (C) as a result, DTC can be used as a transaction currency (think of a
tgage taken in DTC in a country which is naturally aligned with some of the major constituent
modities); (D) DTC can also be used a unit of account and a store of value (as much as gold
il, say, can).
To conclude, DTC can serve as a much needed counterpoint for fiat currencies.
knowledgements
are also grateful to two anonymous referees whose suggestions helped to improve the presenta-
.
14
(a)
M M M
M
M
C M
M C
M
M M
M Mining node C Client
(b)
T T V
V
V
C V
V C
T
T T
V Validating node T Tracking node C Client
(c) A
U E E E U
N
N
S N
N S
E
N E
A
A
N Notary node E ECash Tracking node A Assets Registry node
S Sponsor U User
(d) A
U U
E E E
U
N
N
S N
N S
E
N E
A U
A
N Notary node E ECash Tracking node A Assets Registry node
S Sponsor U User
ure 1: Comparison of different blockchain architectures: (a) Bitcoin; (b) Ripple; (c) DTC for
nsors; (d) DTC for Sponsors and Users
15
Consortium
Assets Registry
Consortium Assets Assets Assets
Administration
Coins Coins Coins
Sponsor Sponsor Sponsor
eCash eCash
User User
eCash
Figure 2: Tradecoin Entities
Consortium
Assets Registry
Asset X
(2) Consortium
marks asset in
Registry
Sponsor Consortium Sponsor (5) Other sponsors Y
verify coin/asset
X (1) Sponsor X Administration Y conversion
requests
asset/coin
conversion (3) Consortium
assigns the coin
equivalent on
Assets Ledger
(4) A portion of each Consortium Reserves
Sponsor’s coins are
held in the Consortium’s
Reserves Sponsor X
Reserves
Assets Ledger
Figure 3: Converting Assets to Coins
16
Assets Ledger
Consortium Reserves
Sponsor X
Reserves
(2) Consortium approves/denies
the Sponsor’s request
(1) Sponsor requests
its coins to be pushed
into circulation
Sponsor Consortium
X Administration
(3) Consortium pushes the Sponsor’s coins
onto the Coins Ledger
Coins Coins Coins
Sponsor Sponsor ... Sponsor
X Y Z
Coins Ledger
Figure 4: Tradecoin Coins Ledger
Consortium
Administration
Payer A Payee B
eCash eCash TX TX TX
acct acct
eCash Tracking Ledger
aw ep
dr D
ith os it
W
User User
Spend
Payer Payee
Figure 5: Tradecoin eCash Tracking Ledger
17
ferences
Lipton, A. and Pentland, A., 2018. Breaking the Bank. Scientific American, 318(1), pp.26-31.
A. Lipton, “Blockchains and distributed ledgers in retrospective and perspective,” Journal of
Risk Finance, vol. 19, no. 1, 2018.
S. Nakamoto, 2008. “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System.” [Online].
Buterin, V., 2014. Ethereum: A next-generation smart contract and decentralized application
platform. URL https://github. com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/% 5BEnglish% 5D-White-Paper.
Schwartz, D., Youngs, N. and Britto, A., 2014. The Ripple protocol consensus algorithm.
Ripple Labs Inc White Paper, 5.
Lipton, A., Sams, R. and Pentland, A., 2018. The Tale of the Utility Settlement Coin and a
Narrow Bank.
D. L. Chaum, “Untraceable electronic mail, return addresses, and digital pseudonyms,” Com-
munications of the ACM, vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 84–88, February 1981.
D. Chaum, A. Fiat, and M. Naor, “Untraceable electronic cash,” in Proceedings on Advances
in Cryptology, ser. CRYPTO ’88. New York, NY, USA: Springer-Verlag New York, Inc., 1990,
pp. 319–327.
Ali, R., Barrdear, J., Clews, R. and Southgate, J., 2014. The economics of digital currencies.
Andolfatto, D., 2015. Fedcoin: On the Desirability of a Government Cryptocurrency. Web Log
post.
Barrdear, J. and Kumhof, M., 2016. The macroeconomics of central bank issued digital cur-
rencies.
Broadbent, B., 2016. Central banks and digital currencies. Speech at London School of Eco-
nomics.
Dyson, B. and Hodgson, G., 2016. Digital Cash. Why Central Banks Should Start Issu-
ing Electronic Money. London, UK: Positive Money. Available at http://positivemoney.
org/publications-old/digital-cash-why-central-banks-should-startissuing-electronic-money-
new-report.
Fung, B.S. and Halaburda, H., 2016. Central Bank Digital Currencies: A Framework for
Assessing Why and How. Bank of Canada Staff Discussion Paper, 22.
Lipton, A., 2016, The decline of the cash empire. Risk Magazine, 29, (11), pp. 53-53.
Bordo, M.D. and Levin, A.T., 2017. Central bank digital currency and the future of monetary
policy (No. w23711). National Bureau of Economic Research.
He, M.D., Leckow, M.R.B., Haksar, M.V., Griffoli, M.T.M., Jenkinson, N., Kashima, M.M.,
Khiaonarong, T., Rochon, M.C. and Tourpe, H., 2017. Fintech and Financial Services: Initial
Considerations. International Monetary Fund.
18
Mersch, Y., 2017. Digital Base Money: an assessment from the ECB’s perspective. Speech at
the Farewell ceremony for Pentti Hakkarainen, Deputy Governor of Suomen Pankki–Finlands
Bank. Helsinki, 16.
Powell, J., 2017. Innovation, Technology, and the Payments System. Speech. Blockchain: The
Future of Finance and Capital Markets.
Scorer, S., 2017. Central Bank Digital Currency: DLT or not DLT? That is the Question.
Available at: https://bankunderground.co.uk/2017/06/05/central-bank-digital-currency-dlt-
or-not-dlt-that-is-the-question/.
Rogoff, K., 2016. The curse of cash. Princeton.
Ilgmann, C., 2015. Silvio Gesell:“A strange, unduly neglected” monetary theorist. Journal of
Post Keynesian Economics, 38(4), pp.532-564.
Fisher, I., 1933. Stamp Scrip. New York: Adelphi Company.
Danezis, G. and Meiklejohn, S., 2015. Centrally banked cryptocurrencies. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1505.06895.
Reid, F. and Harrigan, M., 2013. An analysis of anonymity in the bitcoin system. In Security
and privacy in social networks (pp. 197-223). Springer New York.
Pennacchi, G., 2012. Narrow banking. Annu. Rev. Financ. Econ., 4(1), pp.141-159.
Lamport, L., Shostak, R. and Pease, M., 1982. The Byzantine generals problem. ACM Trans-
actions on Programming Languages and Systems (TOPLAS), 4(3), pp.382-401.
Castro, M. and Liskov, B., 1999, February. Practical Byzantine fault tolerance. In OSDI (Vol.
99, pp. 173-186).
Haas, A., Ussher, L.J., To¨pfer, K. and Jaeger, C.C., 2014. Currencies, Commodities, and
Keynes.
Lowe, J., 1824. The Present State of England in Regard to Agriculture, Trade and Finance:
With a Comparison of the Prospects of England and France. E. Bliss and E. White.
Scrope, G.P., 1833. An examination of the bank charter question [&c.].
Jevons, W.S., 1885. Money and the Mechanism of Exchange (Vol. 17). Kegan Paul, Trench.
Marshall, A., 1887. Remedies for fluctuations of general prices.
Graham, F.D., 1940. The primary functions of money and their consummation in monetary
policy. The American Economic Review, 30(1), pp.1-16.
Graham, B., 1933. Stabilized reflation. In The Economic Forum (Vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 186-193).
Hayek, F.A., 1943. A commodity reserve currency. The Economic Journal, 53(210/211),
pp.176-184.
Keynes, 1943. The objective of international price stability. The Economic Journal, pp.185-187.
19
Kaldor, N., 2007. Causes of growth and stagnation in the world economy. Cambridge University
Press.
Zhou, X., 2009. Reform the International Monetary System. Bank of International Settlements,
Basel.
J. Camenisch, S. Hohenberger, and A. Lysyanskaya, “Compact e-cash,” in Proceedings of the
24th Annual International Conference on Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Tech-
niques, ser. EUROCRYPT’05. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag, 2005, pp. 302–321.
Grothoff, C., 2016. GNU Taler–A privacy-preserving online payment system for libre society.
Hardjono, T., Lipton, A., and Pentland, A. 2018. Towards a Design Philosophy for Interoper-
able Blockchain Systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.05934.
20
Society Open
