Understanding the group dynamics and success of teams
Michael Klug and James P. Bagrow
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160007.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160007
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 January 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 February 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 1 March 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160007.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Michael Szell)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
As stated clearly in the methods section, the data can be downloaded freely from the site
githubarchive.org. This is adequate.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a very interesting and important paper that quantifies success in teamwork using a large
number of self-organized team projects in Github. While there is a large corpus of literature on
specific case studies, mainly in organizational research, this is one of the first attempts to
systematically understand the mechanisms behind how teams become successful. The paper's
main finding is that, controlling for team size, successful teams are significantly more focused,
members have a more diverse experience, and that members of successful teams are more likely
to become leads in future teams.
The study is methodologically sound, uses appropriate statistics and controls, cites literature
adequately, and is of high quality. Results are adequately discussed and put into context of the
wider literature. I think the manuscript could be published in this form. However, I have two
discretionary remarks that could improve the paper slightly:
- There is a recent publication analyzing the top 58 Github projects in a similar manner: Scholtes,
Ingo, Pavlin Mavrodiev, and Frank Schweitzer. "From Aristotle to Ringelmann: a large-scale
analysis of team productivity and coordination in Open Source Software projects." Empirical
Software Engineering (2014): 1-42.
I think it could be relevant to refer to/incorporate this article, as it goes into the detailed
mechanisms of coordination efforts/overheads and seems to complement the manuscript in some
(methodological) points.
- In the analysis all teams that had success above the 99th percentile were filtered out (Table 1 and
2). However, it could be that these "outliers" are the most interesting projects. Due to a possibly
heavy-tailed success distribution it might be that they are not "outliers" at all but a fundamental
part of the system. It is not clear to me if it is adequate to just remove them. Given these concerns,
I think it could be a good idea to at least give a short explanation in the methods section why
filtering out the top percentile is a valid approach.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
3
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript presents a large-scale quantitative analysis of GitHub’s repositories data. The aim
of the analysis is to uncover the features most related to the success of a team, meant as a group
of users that can directly update a repository online. The authors first present the structure of the
GitHub platform and introduce a series of measures for the different features to be taken into
account as possible core features of team success. Then they test the effectiveness of the presented
measures by means of statistical tests and a linear regression model.
Title
The title does not entirely capture the aim of the paper as it does not relate the ”group dynamics”
to the ”success of teams”. I suggest to use a more incisive one.
Abstract
The abstract properly addresses the availability of the large-scale GitHub dataset as one of the
strength of the paper. However, in the second part, the results are not clearly stated, as they are
presented in a vague way and the used language is not always clear (lines 34-40).
Methods and Material
- The workload W (and the user workload wi) is estimated from the number of pushes, where a
push is a set of code updates or commits. This definition does not consider the number of
commits or their size. Consequently, the workload is the same for a user that uploads all the parts
of the repository together and one that just uploads a minimal part. The authors themselves state
that ”this is an imperfect measure as the complexity of a unit work does not generally map to the
quantity of edits”, however the measure as it is defined fails to capture the relative workload of a
user rather than the complexity of a unit work.
- The authors state that they considered the time T of the creation of the repository, in the
following they say ”Otherwise we do not consider temporal features of teams such as team
formation in this work”, the meaning of this sentence is not clear.
Results
- All figures are not clearly defined, both in the caption and in the main text, usually the meaning
of the figure is stated without actually saying what is there in the figure. At least in the caption
they should describe the figure.
- In Figure 2B the authors show the percentage of dominated team for different levels of team size
M. For each M they look at the percentage of dominated teams among the top 10% teams and
among the middle 20% ones. I have two questions: First, what is exactly meant as the middle
20%? Second, what about the worst 10% teams or other categories?
- Again about Figure 2B authors say that ”highly successful teams were significantly more likely
to be dominated”, but this is not true for all values of M considered.
- Figure 2C shows the ”effective team size” as a function of the size M, for top teams and average
teams. This figure adds very little to Figure 2B, one of the two (Figure 2C) in enough.
- In page 8, line 29, authors say that ”teams with many leads have significantly higher success
than teams of the same size with fewer leads” and this ”dispite the limited support a team
member can provide when he/she is occupied with other work”. How- ever in the definition of
L, the number of team members who are the lead of at least one project, no time reference is
made, meaning that nothing can be said about the conjunction of the different team leadership
and hence nothing can be said about the limited support to the team.
4
- The left part of Figure 4 shows the success as a team as a function of the number of leads L and
the size of the team M, a legend would be useful. The exact same thing is showed in the right part
of Figure 4, with the difference that in the right one the values are averaged. The left one seems
then unnecessary.
- Page 8, line 46: ”We have found that teams tend to do the best when optimized along all three of
these dimensions”, which dimensions?
- Page 9, line 44: the authors present T as the age of a project, while previously intro- duced as the
time of creation of the project (page 3, line 37).
Language
The manuscript is not easy to follow, has many unclear sentences (some of which I already
pointed out), and some grammar mistakes. Some of them are:
- page 4, line 29: someone/they;
- page 4, line 44: the sentence ”since S is partially popularity measure” is unclear to me;
- page 5, caption of Figure 1: missing punctuation;
- page 5, line 49/50: the word teams is repeated twice out of three words, a comma is needed;
- page 7, line 51: ”correlated team success”, ”to” is missing;
- page 9, line 47: the sentence ”the number of leads L most strongly correlated with team
success”, does not make sense as it is, maybe ”correlates”?
- page 9, line 54: ”my” is probably ”by”;
- throughout the manuscript there are some cases with a space after comma or full stop, and some
without.
I strongly advise to revise the language and simplify the sentences.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160007)
04-Feb-2016
Dear Dr Bagrow,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Understanding the group dynamics and success of teams")
has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in
accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not
including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 27-Feb-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
5
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160007
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
6
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160007)
See Appendix A.
pendix A
: Manuscript RSOS-160007
ruary 16, 2016
r Editor and Referees,
nk you for your comments and critiques. We understand how busy you are and we are grateful for
time you have taken to consider our manuscript. We have found your observations and suggestions
emely helpful, and have worked hard to improve the manuscript in response. As we understand it, the
rees have two primary scientific concerns:
. We exclude the 1% most successful teams, but those teams may actually represent a bulk of GitHub
activity due to their popularity.
. Using the number of pushes for work size does not account for the number of commits in a push or
the size of those commits.
umber of other comments on the manuscript’s clarity were also given, which we have tried to address.
esponse to these valuable comments, we have taken pains to address the above concerns, and to fix typos,
se figures, and clarify discussions throughout the manuscript.
h these changes, we believe the manuscript is greatly strengthened. We thank the Referees for their
structive comments and hope you will find the revised paper suitable for publication.
se find attached a detailed list of changes and a point-by-point discussion of the referee remarks.
nk you all very much, we look forward to hearing from you.
Bagrow
t of changes
• Justified the filtering of outlier teams (above the 99th percentile of S ) from some statistical analyses;
those teams account for only 2.5% of total team activity.
• Added reference to Scholtes, et al., 2014.
• Added bottom teams to Figs. 2B and 2C.
• Clearly defined top, average and bottom teams. Average teams are those with S above the 40th
percentile of S and also at or below the 60th percentile of S .
• Added colorbar to Fig. 4A.
• Clarified that top teams are significantly more likely than average teams to be dominated when M > 2,
but even top teams with M = 2 are significantly smaller in effective team size m than average teams.
This also justifies the need for both Fig. 2B and 2C.
• Many typos have been fixed and important clarifying revisions made.
• The following required sections have been added at the end of the manuscript: Data accessibility,
Competing interests, Authors’ contributions, and Funding.
int-by-point discussion
Referees presented us with excellent, insightful comments and we are grateful for their efforts. We
that the changes implemented as a consequence of this feedback have significantly strengthened the
uscript, thank you. Here we offer further discussion, quoting the original referee remarks for conve-
ce.
ponse to Referee 1
his is a very interesting and important paper that quantifies success in teamwork using a large number of self-
rganized team projects in Github. While there is a large corpus of literature on specific case studies, mainly
n organizational research, this is one of the first attempts to systematically understand the mechanisms behind
ow teams become successful. The paper’s main finding is that, controlling for team size, successful teams are
ignificantly more focused, members have a more diverse experience, and that members of successful teams are
ore likely to become leads in future teams.
nk you very much for the kind remarks.
he study is methodologically sound, uses appropriate statistics and controls, cites literature adequately, and
of high quality. Results are adequately discussed and put into context of the wider literature. I think the
anuscript could be published in this form. However, I have two discretionary remarks that could improve the
aper slightly:
There is a recent publication analyzing the top 58 Github projects in a similar manner: Scholtes, Ingo, Pavlin
avrodiev, and Frank Schweitzer. ”From Aristotle to Ringelmann: a large-scale analysis of team productivity
nd coordination in Open Source Software projects.” Empirical Software Engineering (2014): 1-42. I think
could be relevant to refer to/incorporate this article, as it goes into the detailed mechanisms of coordination
fforts/overheads and seems to complement the manuscript in some (methodological) points.
, this is a relevant reference. We have added it to the manuscript. Thank you for highlighting it for us.
In the analysis all teams that had success above the 99th percentile were filtered out (Table 1 and 2). However, it
ould be that these ”outliers” are the most interesting projects. Due to a possibly heavy-tailed success distribution
might be that they are not ”outliers” at all but a fundamental part of the system. It is not clear to me if it is
dequate to just remove them. Given these concerns, I think it could be a good idea to at least give a short
xplanation in the methods section why filtering out the top percentile is a valid approach.
are absolutely right, this is an important point and we needed to address it more in the manuscript.
oughout this study we were concerned that outliers were skewing our results, for example that the linear
ession model was actually being driven by a small number of very successful projects.
justification for removing the top 1% for some analyses was as followed: We computed the total work
of each team i. Then we asked what fraction of work was done by the ˜ 1400 teams above the 99th
entile in S . Specifically, X
Wi
i <U+2208> top teams
f = X . (R1)
Wj
j <U+2208> all teams
found f ˜ 2.54%. So we see there is a skew there, that particular 1% of teams are responsible for 2.5%
ork, but the skew is not exceptionally large. If those popular teams were responsible for, say, 20% of
k, then our filter would not be appropriate.
have added this information to the manuscript to make this point more clear to readers. Thank you for
ging it to our attention.
ponse to Referee 2
he manuscript presents a large-scale quantitative analysis of GitHub’s repositories data. The aim of the analysis
to uncover the features most related to the success of a team, meant as a group of users that can directly update
repository online. The authors first present the structure of the GitHub platform and introduce a series of
easures for the different features to be taken into account as possible core features of team success. Then they
est the effectiveness of the presented measures by means of statistical tests and a linear regression model.
nk you. This is an accurate summary of the manuscript.
itle
he title does not entirely capture the aim of the paper as it does not relate the “group dynamics” to the “success
f teams”. I suggest to use a more incisive one.
nk you for the suggestion, but we disagree about the title. Every result we present relates group dynamics
h team success.
group dynamics we refer to include the distributions of work over the members of a team (teams are
inated, teams have small effective size, etc.) and the backgrounds of the team members (volume of
m experience, density of “leads”, etc.) These are interpersonal dynamics and this is a well established
fairly common usage in the social sciences.
to noise? The diversity of team members (Fig 3) is due to noise? Diversity is not even computed from
kload at all!
believe we acknowledged this concern as fairly and as adequately as possible in our original submission.
The authors state that they considered the time T of the creation of the repository, in the following they say
therwise we do not consider temporal features of teams such as team formation in this work, the meaning of
his sentence is not clear.
have revised this statement to improve its clarity, in particular removing the variable T , which also
sed confusion (see our later reply).
wever, you have omitted several important sentences: (i) we stated why we have collected the age of each
ository, that it will be used to check for confounds. (ii) we reported an important statistic, that 2/3rds of
ms were founded within our data window and so we have completely coverage of the histories of most
ms.
n we stated, perhaps too briefly, that the paper otherwise does not focus on temporal questions: we do
study how teams are born, how quickly they grow, whether success and team size are merely correlated
f one causes the other (does success attract team members or do more team members bring success).
efully, you consider the revised text to be more clear.
esults
All figures are not clearly defined, both in the caption and in the main text, usually the meaning of the figure is
tated without actually saying what is there in the figure. At least in the caption they should describe the figure.
are not sure how to better define the figures beyond the specific remarks you give below. We have
y presented simple, standard plots such as bar charts and lines. Furthermore, your detailed comments
rding the figures imply that the figures, axes labels, and captions present sufficient information for one
nalyze their content.
In Figure 2B the authors show the percentage of dominated team for different levels of team size M. For each
they look at the percentage of dominated teams among the top 10% teams and among the middle 20% ones.
have two questions: First, what is exactly meant as the middle 20%? Second, what about the worst 10% teams
r other categories?
dle 20% refers to teams that are both above the 40th percentile of S and at or below the 60th percentile
. We have made this more explicit in the manuscript.
have also added “bottom teams” to Figure 2. These teams are at or below the 10th percentile of S . We
not see a systematic difference between bottom teams and average teams (though they tend to be less
ly to be dominated than average teams for some values of M), and bottoms teams remain very different
m top teams. Our results hold.
Again about Figure 2B authors say that highly successful teams were significantly more likely to be dominated,
ut this is not true for all values of M considered.
s is true for every value of M except M = 2. For M = 2 the measure of domination is too coarse:
y a perfect, exactly equal 50/50 split in work between the two team members would make the team
-dominated.
s is why Figure 2C is important: there we do see that top teams of size M = 2 have effective team size
ller than average teams.
measure of dominated/non-dominated is a simple-to-understand statistic, but it is not useful for M = 2.
ontrast, effective team size is a less obvious entropic measure but it does reveal information for the case
= 2. By starting with one and moving to the other, our goal is to lead the reader from simple to complex
rmation.
also our response to your next remark.
Figure 2C shows the effective team size as a function of the size M, for top teams and average teams. This
gure adds very little to Figure 2B, one of the two (Figure 2C) in enough.
disagree. Duos (M = 2) are trivially dominated (see our prior response), but here the difference in
ctive team size m is significant even for M = 2 (it is a bit hard to see as the errorbars are quite tight,
king almost like horizontal lines). This is why both 2B, 2C, and 2D are all important. They are comple-
tary statistics, of increasing complexity, all attempting to weave together and supporting the conclusion
successful teams, while tending to be larger than other teams, also tend to be more focused in how they
ribute workload over their members.
In page 8, line 29, authors say that “teams with many leads have significantly higher success than teams of
he same size with fewer leads” and this “dispite the limited support a team member can provide when he/she
occupied with other work”. How- ever in the definition of L, the number of team members who are the lead
f at least one project, no time reference is made, meaning that nothing can be said about the conjunction of the
ifferent team leadership and hence nothing can be said about the limited support to the team.
are unsure what the reviewer means here, particularly about time. Nai¨vely, we expect that a team is
e successful when (i) there are many people contributing to it (this is supported by the data; Fig. 1) and
when those people are expending much effort on that project. This second point is not supported by the
. The strong workload focus (Fig 2) shows otherwise.
w do leads fit into this? A team can have only one primary contributor, but the other members of the team
each be leads of other teams. The only way a team of, say, M = 5 members can have five leads (L = 5)
at least 4 members of the team are primary contributors to other teams. This is why teams with many
s have limited support from team members: those team members are necessarily focusing their work
vity on the other teams they participate in. Otherwise they wouldn’t be leads. It has nothing to do with
e, it has to do with the balance of work activity between and across teams.
have revised the two paragraphs discussing our results on L. We hope they are now more clear.
The left part of Figure 4 shows the success as a team as a function of the number of leads L and the size of
he team M, a legend would be useful. The exact same thing is showed in the right part of Figure 4, with the
ifference that in the right one the values are averaged. The left one seems then unnecessary.
have added a colorbar to Fig. 4A.
believe it is useful to see both the averaged and the unaveraged forms of the data, and we have thus in-
ed both plots. There is no strong pressure to meet page counts here, and the figure is simple enough that
ader can quickly process both graphics without becoming overwhelmed and then unable to understand
paper.
Page 8, line 46: ‘We have found that teams tend to do the best when optimized along all three of these
imensions’, which dimensions?
he course of writing and rewriting the manuscript we lost the thread presented here, thank you for
nting this out. The three dimensions correspond to figures 2, 3, and 4. They are “successful teams tend to
ocused” (fig 2), “successful teams tend to be experientially diverse” (fig 3), and “successful teams tend
ave many leads” (fig 4).
have revised the paragraph to fix this narrative gap.
Page 9, line 44: the authors present T as the age of a project, while previously introduced as the time of creation
f the project (page 3, line 37).
nk you for catching this typo. We have revised the description in the methods section to bring it in line
h the variable used in the linear model.
anguage
he manuscript is not easy to follow, has many unclear sentences (some of which I already pointed out), and
ome grammar mistakes. Some of them are:
page 4, line 29: someone/they;
do not understand, is this a grammar issue? “They” is relatively well accepted as a gender-neutral
eholder for either ‘he’ or ‘she’. Does this interfere with the ability to understand the definition of a lead?
page 4, line 44: the sentence “since S is partially popularity measure” is unclear to me;
s is a typo. It should read “Since S is, at least partially, a popularity measure, [. . . ]” (The ‘a’ was omitted
we have also added commas for the parenthetical clause ‘at least partially’.)
page 5, caption of Figure 1: missing punctuation;
have boldfaced “inset” to bring it in line with the format for how other captions refer to subfigures, A,
tc.
page 5, line 49/50: the word teams is repeated twice out of three words, a comma is needed;
ed.
page 7, line 51: ‘correlated team success’, ‘to’ is missing;
ed.
page 9, line 47: the sentence ‘the number of leads L most strongly correlated with team success’, does not
ake sense as it is, maybe ‘correlates’?
sentence has been changed to read “Examining the regression coefficients showed that the number of
s L was the variable most strongly correlated with team success.”
page 9, line 54: ‘my’ is probably ‘by’;
ed. Thank you.
throughout the manuscript there are some cases with a space after comma or full stop, and some without. I
trongly advise to revise the language and simplify the sentences.
have tried to identify and fix as many copy-editing mistakes as possible, but it is unlikely we have been
% successful. We hope any remaining issues will not harm the scientific merit of the manuscript.
Society Open
