Escaping the tragedy of the commons through targeted
punishment
Samuel Johnson
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150223.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150223
Review timeline
Original submission: 22 May 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 17 July 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 30 July 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150223.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The author provides supplementary materials, but the supplementary material still does not give
answers for the questions that I consider.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The evolution of cooperation among self-interested individuals is amongst the top 25 research
problems. Recently, growing attention has been paid to punishment rules in the evolution of
cooperation. The author presents a model with punishment rules, where global cooperation is
maintained.
However, I think that some parts of the paper are not clear, which should be clarified. This will
determine if the paper can be accepted. The issues that should be clarified are listed as follows.
1. The author mentions the heterogeneity among players is an important factor, but it is not clear
that what the heterogeneity among players really denotes. Does it denote the types of players
(cooperators and defectors)? Or among cooperators or defectors, does there exist subclasses of
players? Or are players heterogeneously distributed? Could the author clarify this?
2. How is the evolution of cooperation influenced by the heterogeneity? There are no results
about this in the paper. Could the author clarify?
3. The author mentions that the number of players is only 200 agents, which is roughly the
number of countries in the world. However, the model that the author proposed does not only
focus on countries according to the paper. If the model could be used to study the evolution of
cooperation among individuals in society, the number of players would be too small. Could the
author explain this?
4. In the paper, it is assumed that the model is established in the absence of interaction with the
rest of the population. However, no one is an island in society. It is impossible that one does not
interact with others. If there are no interactions among players, how will they get information and
make decisions?
5. As is known, the evolution of cooperation in a population has long been investigated in the
framework of evolutionary games on graphs, where limited rationality is applied. Why does the
author make a new model in terms of game theory rather than evolutionary game theory
directly?
6. The positions of players are arranged in order of their predisposition. Does it mean the players
form a line network or a ring network? Because the spatial structure is a key factor that influences
the evolution of cooperation among players. Could the author clarify the relationship between
the spatial structure and the evolution of cooperation, when the proposed model is applied.
7. Related to the above question, why are the players arranged in order of their predisposition?
What is the purpose of this arrangement? Does this arrangement increase cooperation?
8. The simulations have been carried out, when initially players are all cooperators or defectors.
What about if some of players are cooperators and some are defectors? How does the initial
proportion of cooperators among players influence the evolution?
9. For Fig. 1, what strategy for punishment is used to obtain the results?
10. According to the results, global cooperation is obtained, when the "single file strategy" or the
"groups strategy" is applied. Nevertheless, are these rules really reasonable? Do they really exist
in reality largely? The author should give more evidence or references in order to ensure the
generality of these rules.
11. What statistical methods are used to present the results due to the randomness of the model?
How many times do the simulations run? How are the results from simulations processed to get
the statistical results?
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (J. Lansing)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is an admirably clear and insightful contribution to the literature on the role of punishment
in cooperation games. It is ready for publication. I have just one suggestion for the author: Tavoni
et al (2012) make a closely related (but less general) argument, which refines a concept of "equity-
driven ostracism" and adds a resource extraction parameter. It might be interesting to consider
the effects of Johnson's "single file strategy" on the Tavoni model. However, this is merely a
speculative thought.
Ref: Tavoni et al. 2012.The survival of the conformist. J their bio 299, 152-161.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is clear, I had no difficulties to understand.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
4
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
In general, it is a sound work but I have some comments which hopefully help the author to
elevate further the presentation level. My main objection is the author ignored several previous
works, which makes difficult for readers to estimate the real value of present paper. More
specifically,
1) In the abstract the author writes "The heterogeneity of players, often regarded as an obstacle"
(something similar is stated at the end of intro.) I think it is misleading because there is a broad
agreement in scientific community that heterogeneity of players is not just a more realistic
approach to study conflicts but also it provides a better condition for cooperation to evolve. The
pioneering works are Phys. Rev. Lett. 95 (2005) 098104, EPL 77 (2007) 30004 and Phys. Rev. E 77
(2008) 011904.
2) Regarding Eq. (2.1), let me note that this approach, considering bounded rationality, is a well-
known and frequently applied formula in evolutionary game theory. Please check J. Econ. Theory
78 (1998) 130 and Physics Reports 446 (2007) 97, but I could list a hundred of other papers where
exactly the same strategy update probability has been used.
3) On page 4 the author writes: "some degree of randomness in the selection of strategies is
globally beneficial." It is again an observation which was already emphasized by previous
studies, like Phys. Rev. E 73 (2006) 067103, but the optimal level might be selected via an
evolutionary process (Phys. Rev. E 80 (2009) 056112).
4) Perhaps it is worth mentioning that the punishing strategies described in Fig.2. requires
"global" information because the rank of players is known for all others. This assumption is not
necessarily fulfilled in a large system where players only have locally limited information about
the others or in the case when group formation is based on different rule. Nevertheless, the
concept to punish just a portion of defectors was also raised in New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 093016. This
way of punishment, similarly to present case, could provide a more economical treatment for a
higher cooperation level.
5) Page 6, first paragraph - it is again worth noting that the option of antisocial punishment
(when defectors punish other players) was already raised in several works (see, for example in
Science 319 (2008) 1362
PLoS Comput. Biol. 6 (2010) e1000758, or Nature Communication 2 (2011) 434).
6) Speaking of the motivation of present model, I believe that mutual risk has a decisive role on
this problem (Phys. Life Rev. 11 (2014) 573), but the different levels of vulnerability might
jeopardize our optimism (Phys. Life Rev. 11 (2014) 589).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150223)
26-Jun-2015
Dear Dr Johnson,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Escaping the Tragedy of the Commons through
Targeted Punishment") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise
your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found
5
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 19-Jul-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
6
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150223)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Response to Referees:
“Escaping the Tragedy of the Commons through
Targeted Punishment”
Samuel Johnson
I would like to thank all three referees for taking the time to review this
manuscript, and for their various suggestions which have signi<U+FB01>cantly improved
the work – and, I should add, my knowledge of the topic. In what follows I
address each of the comments in turn, using italics for the referees’ comments
and roman for my replies.
Reviewer 1
This is an admirably clear and insightful contribution to the literature on the
role of punishment in cooperation games. It is ready for publication. I have
just one suggestion for the author: Tavoni et al (2012) make a closely related
(but less general) argument, which re<U+FB01>nes a concept of ”equity-driven ostracism”
and adds a resource extraction parameter. It might be interesting to consider
the e<U+FB00>ects of Johnson’s ”single <U+FB01>le strategy” on the Tavoni model. However,
this is merely a speculative thought. Ref: Tavoni et al. 2012.The survival of the
conformist. J their bio 299, 152-161.
Thank you for such a positive assessment of my work. I was not aware of
the paper by Tavoni et al., which I now disucss on page 9, paragraph 2. Equity-
driven ostracism could be precisely the kind of interaction needed for targeted
punishment, so I believe their results complement very well my suggestions here.
I would be keen to look into how the two mechanisms could be integrated, as
the Reviewer suggests, and have mentioned this possibility in the Discussion.
Reviewer 2
The evolution of cooperation among self-interested individuals is amongst the
top 25 research problems. Recently, growing attention has been paid to punish-
ment rules in the evolution of cooperation. The author presents a model with
punishment rules, where global cooperation is maintained.
However, I think that some parts of the paper are not clear, which should
be clari<U+FB01>ed. This will determine if the paper can be accepted. The issues that
should be clari<U+FB01>ed are listed as follows.
Thank you for pointing out these points in need of clari<U+FB01>cation. I hope you
will <U+FB01>nd my changes satisfactorily address them all.
1. The author mentions the heterogeneity among players is an important fac-
tor, but it is not clear that what the heterogeneity among players really denotes.
Does it denote the types of players (cooperators and defectors)? Or among co-
operators or defectors, does there exist subclasses of players? Or are players
heterogeneously distributed? Could the author clarify this?
I have now addressed the issue of heterogeneity at some length – in response
to this comment, the one below, and suggestions of Reviewer 3 – by making
several changes to the text and adding ‘Section 4: Heterogeneity’, to the Sup-
plementary Material (SM). To answer the speci<U+FB01>c questions of this comment,
the heterogeneity I consider is only in the natural predispositions {hi }, which
in<U+FB02>uence players’ tendency to cooperate or to defect at each time step (via Eqs.
2.1 and 2.2). Other than these predispositions, there are no other di<U+FB00>erences
between players. These points are clari<U+FB01>ed on page 3.
2. How is the evolution of cooperation in<U+FB02>uenced by the heterogeneity? There
are no results about this in the paper. Could the author clarify?
This is a good point. I have added Section 4 to the SM, and refer to the results
in the second paragraph of page 8. The main conclusion is that heterogeneity is
not necessary for targeted punishment (which works even when predispositions
are homogeneous), but it serves to promote cooperation. This is in keeping with
the literature suggested by Reviewer 3.
3. The author mentions that the number of players is only 200 agents, which
is roughly the number of countries in the world. However, the model that the
author proposed does not only focus on countries according to the paper. If the
model could be used to study the evolution of cooperation among individuals in
society, the number of players would be too small. Could the author explain
this?
This is another good point. I have also added ‘Section 3: Number of players’
to the SM, with MC simulations for larger systems, showing that the results
presented here are not contingent on a small system size (I refer to this in the
<U+FB01>rst paragraph of page 8). As the Reviewer suggests, this supports the idea
that targeted punishment could also be applicable to situations where players
are individuals instead of countries.
4. In the paper, it is assumed that the model is established in the absence of
interaction with the rest of the population. However, no one is an island in
society. It is impossible that one does not interact with others. If there are no
interactions among players, how will they get information and make decisions?
I have rephrased the sentence on page 3, paragraph 2 where I used to refer
to an “absence of interactions”. I now make clear that this is not the case. I
simply separate players’ perceived payo<U+FB00>s into two components: the individual
predispositions hi which do not depend on the activity of other players, and the
interaction term pi which takes into account punishment or other such mecha-
nisms. I go on to mention that “We are assuming that the players know each
other’s states, as is usually the case, for instance, of governments choosing cli-
mate policy.” Having said this, the ‘rationality’ parameter ß could, in fact, be
interpreted as accounting for imperfect information.
5. As is known, the evolution of cooperation in a population has long been
investigated in the framework of evolutionary games on graphs, where limited
rationality is applied. Why does the author make a new model in terms of game
theory rather than evolutionary game theory directly?
My initial thoughts on the mechanism of targeted punishment were indeed in
terms of evolutionary game theory. But I was most interested in cases such as
climate policy, where a group of semi-rational agents attempt to cooperate for
the common good. In such settings, the identities of the agents is conserved
throughout the process, and although a replicator equation can be interpreted
as modelling the uptake of a new strategy based on emulation of the most suc-
cessful players, I do not believe it is well-suited to describe switches in strategy
which are based on a combination of natural proclivities and interactions with
others (such as punishment). I wanted to use the simplest model which could
capture this behaviour, and for that reason decided upon a sigmoidal transi-
tion probability with a single ‘rationality’ parameter, rather than some kind of
replicator dynamics. However, I believe it would be interesting in future work
to consider targeted punishment in an evolutionary setting also, particularly if
cases were identi<U+FB01>ed where it may be at work in nature.
6. The positions of players are arranged in order of their predisposition. Does
it mean the players form a line network or a ring network? Because the spa-
tial structure is a key factor that in<U+FB02>uences the evolution of cooperation among
players. Could the author clarify the relationship between the spatial structure
and the evolution of cooperation, when the proposed model is applied.
It is true that targeted punishment resembles a spatial structure, or some other
form or assortment, and I have added a paragraph (paragraph 3) to page 8 to
address this point.
7. Related to the above question, why are the players arranged in order of their
predisposition? What is the purpose of this arrangement? Does this arrange-
ment increase cooperation?
Arranging the players in order of their predispositions promotes cooperation
if only cooperators can punish, but has no e<U+FB00>ect when punishment is constant.
I have now clari<U+FB01>ed this point on page 7, paragraph 2, referring to the simulation
results shown in the SM, ‘Section 2: Robustness to noise’, where the orderings
of players are shu<U+FB04>ed.
8. The simulations have been carried out, when initially players are all co-
operators or defectors. What about if some of players are cooperators and some
are defectors? How does the initial proportion of cooperators among players in-
<U+FB02>uence the evolution?
In the case of equal punishment (no targeted punishment strategy), dynamics
only depends on the fraction of cooperators, so one can ascertain which attrac-
tor the system will be in from mean-<U+FB01>eld stability considerations (as shown in
Methods and Figs. 1c, 1d and 1e). Under more complex strategies, dynamics
will depend on the precise con<U+FB01>guration. But, in any case, the initial conditions
‘all defect’ give the worst case scenario: for any <U+FB01>nite fraction of initial cooper-
ators, global cooperation will be achieved at least as probably. Since targeted
punishment has the e<U+FB00>ect of narrowing the range of parameter space where co-
operation is stable but not achievable, initial conditions become less important
the more e<U+FB00>ective the strategy. I have now clari<U+FB01>ed this on page 6, paragraph
2.
9. For Fig. 1, what strategy for punishment is used to obtain the results?
In Fig. 1 all defectors are punished equally by all cooperators (so, no tar-
geted punishment). I have mentioned this on page 4, paragraphs 1 and 2, and
in the <U+FB01>gure caption.
10. According to the results, global cooperation is obtained, when the ”single
<U+FB01>le strategy” or the ”groups strategy” is applied. Nevertheless, are these rules
really reasonable? Do they really exist in reality largely? The author should give
more evidence or references in order to ensure the generality of these rules.
I have not been able to <U+FB01>nd any references to strategies of this kind being
used in any real setting. My feeling is that it would be di<U+FB03>cult for such be-
haviour to evolve in nature, but you never know. As to society, the closest I
have seen is the suggestion by Pacheco et al. (Ref 5) to allocate countries to
groups, although for slightly di<U+FB00>erent reasons than proposed here. I have begun
talking to experimentalists in the hope of designing a setting where it could
be observed empirically. And, of course, perhaps someone will think of using
targeted punishment after reading this paper!
11. What statistical methods are used to present the results due to the ran-
domness of the model? How many times do the simulations run? How are the
results from simulations processed to get the statistical results?
I have now mentioned in the <U+FB01>gure captions that results are for averages over 100
Monte Carlo runs (and for some of the new <U+FB01>gures in SM, error bars represent
standard deviations). Other than this, there is no pre-processing of simulation
results.
Reviewer 3
In general, it is a sound work but I have some comments which hopefully help
the author to elevate further the presentation level. My main objection is the
author ignored several previous works, which makes di<U+FB03>cult for readers to esti-
mate the real value of present paper.
Thank you for your comments and for bringing to my attention this exten-
sive literature. I am not as familiar with evolutionary game theory as I should
wish, and many of the references you mention have helped me to contextualise
the work much better than I had done originally.
More speci<U+FB01>cally,
1) In the abstract the author writes ”The heterogeneity of players, often re-
garded as an obstacle” (something similar is stated at the end of intro.) I think
it is misleading because there is a broad agreement in scienti<U+FB01>c community that
heterogeneity of players is not just a more realistic approach to study con<U+FB02>icts
but also it provides a better condition for cooperation to evolve. The pioneering
works are Phys. Rev. Lett. 95 (2005) 098104, EPL 77 (2007) 30004 and Phys.
Rev. E 77 (2008) 011904.
I agree. I was referring to the perception in the social sciences that the dif-
ferences between countries make tackling climate change harder, but I had not
realised that heterogeneity had been established as contributing to coopera-
tion in evolutionary game theory – a result which, I feel, puts my work on a
<U+FB01>rmer footing. This was also brought to my attention by a colleague after I had
submitted the manuscript. I have changed the abstract and introduction, and
referred to the work you mention on page 2, paragraph 3.
2) Regarding Eq. (2.1), let me note that this approach, considering bounded
rationality, is a well-known and frequently applied formula in evolutionary game
theory. Please check J. Econ. Theory 78 (1998) 130 and Physics Reports 446
(2007) 97, but I could list a hundred of other papers where exactly the same
strategy update probability has been used.
Again, I am grateful to be made aware of this work, and have referred to it
on page 3, paragraph 1 when describing the model.
3) on page 4 the author writes: ”some degree of randomness in the selection
of strategies is globally bene<U+FB01>cial.” It is again an observation which was already
emphasized by previous studies, like Phys. Rev. E 73 (2006) 067103, but the
optimal level might be selected via an evolutionary process (Phys. Rev. E 80
(2009) 056112).
I have now referred to this result on page 4, paragraph 2.
4) Perhaps it is worth mentioning that the punishing strategies described in
Fig.2. requires ”global” information because the rank of players is known for all
others. This assumption is not necessarily ful<U+FB01>lled in a large system where play-
ers only have locally limited information about the others or in the case when
group formation is based on di<U+FB00>erent rule. Nevertheless, the concept to punish
just a portion of defectors was also raised in New J. Phys. 14 (2012) 093016.
This way of punishment, similarly to present case, could provide a more eco-
nomical treatment for a higher cooperation level.
This is true. I have now made clear on page 3, paragraph 2 that global in-
formation is required for the simple version of the model here described. It
would be interesting to look into how far this constraint can be relaxed. I have
done this to some extent in the SM, ‘Section 2: Robustness to noise’, by shuf-
<U+FB02>ing the ordering, and the parameter ß could be interpreted as accounting for
imperfect information. However, I have not explored this issue in detail here
since it is not the focus of the paper.
5) Page 6, <U+FB01>rst paragraph - it is again worth noting that the option of anti-
social punishment (when defectors punish other players) was already raised in
several works (see, for example in Science 319 (2008) 1362 PLoS Comput. Biol.
6 (2010) e1000758, or Nature Communication 2 (2011) 434).
Yes, I mention antisocial punishment in footnote 3 on page 4. However, I
should add that the case in which defectors can also punish which I am con-
sidering is not actually antisocial, but rather pro-social punishment, since they
are punishing other defectors (this may seem counter-intuitive, but we see many
examples of this behaviour in international relations, such as the Unites States
using sanctions to deter other countries from developing nuclear weapons). True
antisocial punishment could completely alter the dynamics presented here, but
I consider it to be outside the scope of the paper.
6) Speaking of the motivation of present model, I believe that mutual risk has a
decisive role on this problem (Phys. Life Rev. 11 (2014) 573), but the di<U+FB00>erent
levels of vulnerability might jeopardize our optimism (Phys. Life Rev. 11 (2014)
589).
I agree wholeheartedly, and have now made reference at several points in the
text to the paper by Pacheco et al. It is interesting that these authors also
suggest dividing countries into groups as a way of tackling climate change – the
di<U+FB00>erence being that their emphasis is on intra-group interaction, while targeted
punishment is an inter-group mechanism.
Society Open
