Satellite tracking reveals novel migratory patterns and the
importance of seamounts for endangered South Pacific
humpback whales
Claire Garrigue, Phillip J. Clapham, Ygor Geyer, Amy S. Kennedy and Alexandre N.
Zerbini
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150489.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150489
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 June 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 15 September 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 22 October 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 26 October 2015
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150489.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Andrew Brierley)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is not clear if/how/where data are available
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a very nice, polished paper. I note that it has already gone through a round of revision: I
did not see the first version.
I would be interested to know if the behaviour of the whales followed Levy-like movement.
Consideration of that (as for example espoused by Sims et al in Nature) is not essential for this
m/s, but knowing if the seamounts fitted with Levy distribution would be fascinating.
Taxonomically different, but equally important from the p.o.v. of sea-mount conservation, is the
observation by Japanese colleagues (again published in Nature) of the use by eels of a single
Pacific seamount for spawning/completion of the lifecycle: perhaps reference to that study could
be made by way of broadening the relevance of this 'seamount' research to a wider community
(wider than whale biologists).
The statistical model (switching state space) of foraging seems like a sledge-hammer to crack a
nut, but I note a previous referee's request for enhanced statistics.
It was a pleasure to read this paper.May I pass it (in this form) to my MSc class who are studying
the importance of seamounts?
Thanks,
Andy Brierley
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150489)
16-Oct-2015
Dear Professor GARRIGUE
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150489 entitled
"Satellite tracking reveals novel migratory patterns and the importance of seamounts for
endangered South Pacific humpback whales" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find
the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
3
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150489
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests. Your funding from Greenpeace should be listed as a competing interest,
rather than being listed as an acknowledgement.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 25-Oct-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
4
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150489)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Noumea 22 October 2015
IRD UMR Entropie –
UPVD, 52 Avenue Paul Alduy
66860 Perpignan Cedex 9
Dr Claire GARRIGUE
e-mail: claire.garrigue@ird.fr
Ph. +033 6 13 13 36 46
To
Professor Kevin Padian
Editor of Royal Society Open Science
The Royal Society
6-9 Carlton House terrace
London, SW1Y 5AG
England
Subject: submission of manuscript / previous manuscript ID: RSOS-150489
Dear Editor,
Following the email received from Emilie Aime, the Senior Publishing Editor of Royal Society
Open Science we are pleased to enclosed a new revised version of our manuscript entitled
“Satellite tracking reveals novel migratory patterns and the importance of seamounts for
endangered South Pacific humpback whales”.
Following your recommendations we have added the following text under the "Competing
interests": Lines 381-383: “The first year of this tagging project was primarily financed by
Greenpeace International as part of a scientific collaboration to carry out non-lethal research on
specific populations of South Pacific humpback whales.”
Please find under our answers to the comments of the reviewer Andy Brierley.
We have numbered and addressed the reviewer’s comments in bold text. For each
comment, we cite the line number of the tracked changes version of the manuscript where
the comments have been addressed
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a very nice, polished paper. I note that it has already gone through a round of
revision: I did not see the first version.
I would be interested to know if the behaviour of the whales followed Levy-like movement.
Consideration of that (as for example espoused by Sims et al in Nature) is not essential for
this m/s, but knowing if the seamounts fitted with Levy distribution would be fascinating.
R1 Response 1: This is an interesting question posed by the reviewers. We have not
investigated whether the movement patterns of the humpback whales followed Levy-like
movement because this was beyond the scope of the paper. This can certainly be looked at
in the future and we are happy to provide the data to the reviewer if there is an interest on
his part to look at this question.
Taxonomically different, but equally important from the p.o.v. of sea-mount conservation, is
the observation by Japanese colleagues (again published in Nature) of the use by eels of a
single Pacific seamount for spawning/completion of the lifecycle: perhaps reference to that
study could be made by way of broadening the relevance of this 'seamount' research to a
wider community (wider than whale biologists).
R1 Response 2: the reference has been added to the paper and the text has been modified
as follow:
Lines 53-54: “Seamounts support a large number of organisms and strongly influence the
distribution of a wide range of species at different stages of their life cycle [10-14].”
The statistical model (switching state space) of foraging seems like a sledge-hammer to crack
a nut, but I note a previous referee's request for enhanced statistics.
R1 Response 3: We understand the reviewer’s point but think the application of the SSM
does address recommendations made in a previous review and also provide a way to
quantitatively explore behavioral modes at areas of interest for us like the seamounts.
It was a pleasure to read this paper. May I pass it (in this form) to my MSc class who are
studying the importance of seamounts?
R1 Response 4: Yes, please feel free to pass it to your MSc class hoping that it could help us
in their study.
Thank you for your kind help and those of Dr Andy Brierley as well as the anonymous
reviewers.
PS: I am presently out of my office. I will available at the phone number indicated in this letter from
the 17th of November.
Society Open
