Identification of allosteric disulfides from labile bonds in
X-ray structures
Aster E. Pijning, Joyce Chiu, Reichelle X. Yeo, Jason W. H. Wong and Philip J. Hogg
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171058.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171058
Review timeline
Original submission: 4 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 20 December 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 January 2018 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171058.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Dear Editor,
This work is an outstanding contribution to the field of redox science and in particular redox
signalling. The work is absolutely sound. Frankly spoken, I wish I had the idea to screen the PDB
for these structures myself.
I basically recommend the work to be published as is. However, the authors may consider the
following minor point in their discussion: Page 7, first abstract, and page 8, first abstract. Instead
of only pointing to thermodynamic parameters for the operation of the thiol switches,
i.e.allosteric disulfiides, the authors may also include a few sentences on the requirement for
enzymatic catalysis in vivo, mostly performed by the oxidoreductases of the thioredoxin family
of proteins.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Clive Metcalfe)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Please see attached file (Appendix A)
3
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
See attached file (Appendix B)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171058)
04-Dec-2017
Dear Dr. Hogg,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Identification of allosteric disulphides from labile bonds in
X-ray structures") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise
your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 27-Dec-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
4
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171058
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
5
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Savvas Savvides (Associate Editor) and Katrin Rittinger (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Dear Editor,
this work is an outstanding contribution to the field of redox science and in particular redox
signalling. The work is absolutely sound. Frankly spoken, I wish I had the idea to screen the PDB
for these structures myself.
I basically recommend the work to be published as is. However, the authors may consider the
following minor point in their discussion: Page 7, first abstract, and page 8, first abstract. Instead
of only pointing to thermodynamic parameters for the operation of the thiol switches,
i.e.allosteric disulfiides, the authors may also include a few sentences on the requirement for
enzymatic catalysis in vivo, mostly performed by the oxidoreductases of the thioredoxin family
of proteins.
6
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Please see attached file
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached file
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171058)
See Appendix C.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171058.R1)
04-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Hogg,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Identification of allosteric disulphides
from labile bonds in X-ray structures" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
7
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Katrin Rittinger (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
The significance of redox labile allosteric disulfide bonds has been gaining increased appreciation
over the last 20 years or so and is now a recognised mechanism of post translationally controlling
protein function. As the authors state, there is much interest in targeting these disulfide bonds or
the molecular machinery that control them as a means of therapy in many diseases. Therefore it is
essential that researchers continue to develop and refine tools that can identify these disulfide
bonds that reside within the vast proteome.
In this study the authors perform an excellent retrospective analysis of protein structures in the
public domain (protein data bank) where they identify disulfide bonds that are both oxidised and
reduced either in different chains of the same crystal or different structures of the same protein. If
the differential presence of the bond passes their stringent acceptance criteria it is assigned as
labile. They found 732 such bonds and found that these were enriched with known allosteric
configurations which are known to be pre stressed and ‘easier’ to reduce. Furthermore there are
seven known and verified allosteric disulfide bonds in the dataset which serves as validation of the
observations. Finally a DAVID analysis is performed which shows the coaggulatio0n and
complement cascades and HIF-1 signalling cascades are enriched within the dataset and the authors
go on to describe some interesting structural consequences of the allosteric effects of disulfide
bonds in several proteins.
Overall I feel that this was a well-conceived and executed study and when combined with their
previous observations and experimental approaches of others makes a significant contribution to
narrowing the search for redox labile allosteric disulfide bonds that might control important protein
and cellular functions in biology.
I have one comment for the authors to address if it is possible to do so without a major re analysis of
the data. I wondered if they could make any comments as to whether they thought the ‘missing’
disulfide bonds were due to reduction of intact bonds during X-ray data collection or whether they
were ‘missing’ due to them not been formed at all during the production of the recombinant
proteins.
I found one typo, page 12, line 3 “the first for characters” should be “the first four characters”
Dr Clive Metcalfe
National Institute for Biological Standards and Control, UK
Appendix B
Pijning et al. aimed at the identification of labile disulfide bonds in PDB
structures based on their presence and absence in different structures or
chains of the same protein.
The question the authors asked is interesting but the method they employed
for identification of labile disulfide bonds is not appropriate. It might only work
for high-resolution structures for which atomic distances are determined with
high accuracy and regions with low B-factors. For lower resolution structures
the method could work only when the presence/absence of disulfide bond is
associated with a large conformation change.
I can see major problems with this study:
1. At 3 Å resolution, only approximate positions of side chains can be
determined. Authors seem to be aware of it, as they wrote that they filtered
PDB structures with the threshold of 2.5 Å for resolution. Nevertheless, the
resulting dataset contains many structures with resolution worse than 2.5
Å:
For example, in Table 1:
4JIY 2.66 Å
4A5W 3.5 Å
5I25 2.85 Å
4DUU 5.2 Å !!!
5BRR 3.16 Å
1BDA 3.35 Å
4KRP 2.85 Å
4BHW 2.8 Å
(also NMR structures e.g. 2MZD, 2MH0, 2K8F)
Or in Table S2:
3WLW 3.09 Å
5F4R 2.8 Å
5ES4 3.3 Å
2BDI 3.0 Å
1QAB 3.2 Å
etc.
Low-resolution structures cannot be used for sub-Angstrom details. For
instance, in the case of tissue type plasminogen activator (tPA) in Table 1 and
in Figure 4B, authors claim that 5BRR_E lacks a disulfide bond present in
another structure 1BDA_A. However, the resolution of 1BDA is 3.35 Å, and
the resolution of 5BRR is 3.16 Å, and thus these structures cannot be used to
distinguish such fine details (Reviewer’s Fig. 1)
Reviewer’s Figure 1.
2. Even if the overall resolution is high there still might be regions of low
confidence as reflected by the B-factors. For example, in Table S1 (second
row) authors list the pair of PDB chains of 4XZS structure (resolution 2.12 Å):
chain B should have a disulfide bond while chain A should not. However, this
region exhibits very high B-factors and the missing bond likely stems from
local structural uncertainty (Reviewer’s Figure 2).
Reviewer’s Figure 2
3. To assign disulfide bond authors rely on SSBOND records, but bonds can
also be defined by LINK and/or CONECT records. For example, authors
identified an absent disulfide bond between residues CYS50-CYS111 in the
PDB code 4H42 chain U (Table 1, example 7 and Figure 4A). However, this
bond is still defined in the LINK and CONECT records.
Reviewer’s Figure 3
pendix C
nk you for your review of our manuscript.
ur responses to the reviews, the comments are in blue and our responses in black. The
nges and additions to the manuscript are highlighted in red in the revised manuscript.
iewer 1
e 7, first abstract, and page 8, first abstract. Instead of only pointing to thermodynamic
ameters for the operation of the thiol switches, i.e. allosteric disulfides, the authors may also
ude a few sentences on the requirement for enzymatic catalysis in vivo, mostly performed by
oxidoreductases of the thioredoxin family of proteins.
known mechanisms of cleavage of the allosteric bonds has been indicated in the
oduction of the revised manuscript (page 1, paragraph 1). The following sentence has been
ed to the revised manuscript.
allosteric bonds are cleaved or formed by oxidoreductases of the thioredoxin family or by
a- or inter-molecular thiol–disulphide exchange.’
iewer 2
ndered if they could make any comments as to whether they thought the ‘missing’ disulfide
ds were due to reduction of intact bonds during X-ray data collection or whether they were
sing’ due to them not been formed at all during the production of the recombinant proteins.
reviewer is correct that both options are possible. It is possible that some of the identified
le bonds are the result of cleavage by X-rays during data collection [1] or inefficient
mation during maturation of the protein. This does not exclude an allosteric function for
se particular bonds, although they may have no functional role in the protein. This has been
ussed in the revised manuscript (page 5, paragraph 6).
und one typo, page 12, line 3 “the first for characters” should be “the first four characters”.
has been corrected in the revised manuscript.
iewer 3
t 3 Å resolution, only approximate positions of side chains can be determined. Authors seem
e aware of it, as they wrote that they filtered PDB structures with the threshold of 2.5 Å for
lution. Nevertheless, the resulting dataset contains many structures with resolution worse
n 2.5 Å.
nk you for pointing out this error in our analysis, which has been corrected in the revised
nuscript. The mistake arose from an incorrect order of culling from the PDB. Initially, we first
cted all protein structures containing disulphide bonds, then matched structures in which
bond was missing, and only then restricted the dataset to structures with resolutions < 2.5
ur error was that this method did not restrict structures in which the disulphide bond was
sing to resolutions < 2.5 Å. We have now culled the total disulphide dataset before we
lysed for structures containing missing disulphides. That is, we started with structures with
lutions < 2.5 Å. The total number of labile disulphide bonds has reduced from 732 to 511.
ortantly, all of the original conclusions remain valid for the 511 labile disulphide dataset.
revised Figs. 1-6 and Fig. S2. Some specific examples have changed. See new Fig. 4B
mple of Factor X). The original Fig. 6D has been removed.
ven if the overall resolution is high there still might be regions of low confidence as reflected
he B-factors. For example, in Table S1 (second row) authors list the pair of PDB chains of
S structure (resolution 2.12 Å): chain B should have a disulfide bond while chain A should
However, this region exhibits very high B-factors and the missing bond likely stems from
l structural uncertainty (Reviewer’s Figure 2).
is an excellent point. Further analysis indicates that there is no significant difference
ween the B factor of present and missing disulphide bonds. The following result has been
uded in the revised manuscript (page 2, paragraph 7).
-ray crystallography, the B factor is a measure of the degree to which the electron density
n atom is dispersed. To ensure that the missing disulphide bonds that we detected was not
to uncertainty in the position of cysteines, we compared the average B factor of disulphide
ded cysteines with those of matched missing disulphide bonds. The B factor for each atom
ach cysteine involved in disulphide bond formation (present or missing) was extracted from
esponding PDB structure. The B factors for each disulphide bond was calculated as the
rage of the 12 atoms per cysteine pair. To compare the B factor of present and missing
lphide bonds, the average disulphide bond B factor for all redundant structures were
her averaged respectively. There was no significant difference between the B factor of
sent (37.58 ± 21.78, S.D.) and missing (36.24 ± 21.02, S.D.) disulphide bonds (p = 0.0736,
ed t-test).’
o assign disulfide bond authors rely on SSBOND records, but bonds can also be defined by
K and/or CONECT records. For example, authors identified an absent disulfide bond between
dues CYS50-CYS111 in the PDB code 4H42 chain U (Table 1, example 7 and Figure 4A).
ever, this bond is still defined in the LINK and CONECT records.
nk you for these comments. The SSBOND record in the PDB file indicates the presence of a
lphide bond. However, programs such as Pymol will bond two cysteines when they are in
e proximity to each other, regardless of the presence of the SSBOND annotation in the PDB
This results in the rare occasion of a disulphide bond being predicted (and displayed in
ol) that is not actually present according to the PDB file. In this case, like in Cys50-Cys111
identifier 4H42_U the bond was manually removed in Pymol. The LINK record specifies
nectivity that is not implied by the primary structure, and does not specify connectivity of
lphide bonds. CONECT is generated from LINK.
erence
tton, K. A., Black, P. J., Mercer, K. R., Garman, E. F., Owen, R. L., Snell, E. H., Bernhard, W. A.
3 Insights into the mechanism of X-ray-induced disulfide-bond cleavage in lysozyme crystals
ed on EPR, optical absorption and X-ray diffraction studies. Acta Crystallogr. D Biol.
tallogr. 69, 2381-2394. (10.1107/S0907444913022117)
Society Open
