Reply to “Comment on Age of enlightenment: long-term
effects of outdoor aesthetic lights on bats in churches” by
T. Onkelinx
Jens Rydell, Johan Eklöf and Sonia Sánchez-Navarro
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171630.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171630
Review timeline
Original submission: 13 October 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 15 November 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 17 November 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171630.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
No comments - publish as is.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In my own opinion, this response, adds nothing new, this text is devoid of any scientific
argument.
Line 31, in agreement with Thierry Onkelinx, I don't think the statistic use in Rydell et al. 2017 are
correct, because multiple tests are performed on the same data set, which would have need
correction or global modelling as purpose by Thierry Onkelinx.
In addition only such mixed modelling allow separates the survey effect and the light status
effect. In addition mixed modelling allow consider all the data set, while the McNemar test
requires all data to be paired and thus didnot consider unpaired data, thus in turn in Rydel et al.
studiy this test is performed on subset of the initial dataset. Finally mixed modelling provide
confidence intervals.
Line 32, In my own opinion the result of the modelling purposed by Thierry Onkelinx did not
provided the same result than Rydell et al. 2017.
(i) the 2016 survey, see difference of results for comparison between dark and partly unlit
(ii) the comparison with 1980s survey, while Rydell et al 2017 write "This change in the frequency
of bat presence over time is highly significant", the modelling purposed by Thierry Onkelinx
conclude the "difference in odds for finding no bats between both surveys is unclear"
(iii) Effect of renovation, while Rydell et al 2017 write "that churches were abandoned because of
the lights rather than renovations", the modelling purposed by Thierry Onkelinx conclude that
"we cannot make a hard statement that one is worse than the other"
3
Globally the interpretations of Thierry Onkelinx are quite carefully and based on robust statistics
Lines 37-46, I think that the choice to publis in open access journal is a very nice option, when the
paper is dedicated partially to non scientific readers such as managers. However, in these case
such non scientific readers have not the possibility to judge the relevance of the statistics used
(contrary to academic secientists). Statistic must then be irreproachable, because such type of
readers can only trust the authors. Authors have then a greatest responsibility.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171630)
06-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Rydell
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171630 entitled
"Reply to “Comment on Age of enlightenment: long-term effects of outdoor aesthetic lights on
churches” by T. Onkelinx" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171630
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
4
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 15-Nov-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
5
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
No comments - publish as is.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
In my own opinion, this response, adds nothing new, this text is devoid of any scientific
argument.
Line 31, in agreement with Thierry Onkelinx, I don't think the statistic use in Rydell et al. 2017 are
correct, because multiple tests are performed on the same data set, which would have need
correction or global modelling as purpose by Thierry Onkelinx.
In addition only such mixed modelling allow separates the survey effect and the light status
effect. In addition mixed modelling allow consider all the data set, while the McNemar test
requires all data to be paired and thus didnot consider unpaired data, thus in turn in Rydel et al.
studiy this test is performed on subset of the initial dataset. Finally mixed modelling provide
confidence intervals.
Line 32, In my own opinion the result of the modelling purposed by Thierry Onkelinx did not
provided the same result than Rydell et al. 2017.
(i) the 2016 survey, see difference of results for comparison between dark and partly unlit
(ii) the comparison with 1980s survey, while Rydell et al 2017 write "This change in the frequency
of bat presence over time is highly significant", the modelling purposed by Thierry Onkelinx
conclude the "difference in odds for finding no bats between both surveys is unclear"
6
(iii) Effect of renovation, while Rydell et al 2017 write "that churches were abandoned because of
the lights rather than renovations", the modelling purposed by Thierry Onkelinx conclude that
"we cannot make a hard statement that one is worse than the other"
Globally the interpretations of Thierry Onkelinx are quite carefully and based on robust statistics
Lines 37-46, I think that the choice to publis in open access journal is a very nice option, when the
paper is dedicated partially to non scientific readers such as managers. However, in these case
such non scientific readers have not the possibility to judge the relevance of the statistics used
(contrary to academic secientists). Statistic must then be irreproachable, because such type of
readers can only trust the authors. Authors have then a greatest responsibility.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171630)
Response to reviewers
Reviewer 1. Suggested publish as it is.
Our response: We follow the suggestion, no changes made.
Reviewer 2.
Paragr. 1. …adds nothing new, text is devoid of any scientific argument…
Our response: Does this mean that that the reviewer suggests that we should not publish our
comment? Our point was that it may sometimes be useful to keep science as simple as possible, to
facilitate the understanding of the work by a broader public. We believe that this is an important
point, but we don´t know if it should be considered a “scientific argument” or not. We decided to
retain our comment, and did not change anything in response to this.
Paragraph 2-3. In agreement with Onkelinx …
Our response: This suggests that it has already been covered in Onkelinx´ original comment, and
if so, there is nothing new. But this is outside our field of expertise and there is nothing we can
add.
Paragraph 4-5. Line 32… and Globally…
Our response: Firstly, we cannot evaluate who is right and there is certainly no point to argue
because we do not have sufficient expertise on this. It may well be that the interpretation of the
statistical tests are slightly different depending on which test was used and on how the question
was formulated. For example, “Onkelinx´ conclusion that “we cannot make a hard statement that
one is worse than the other” is presumably correct, but we never asked what was worse. Instead,
our question was if the observed effect could be explained by renovations rather than lights
(generally). This question is slightly different and the answer was therefore not exactly the same
as Onkelinx´.
We have changed the wording in 2nd half of first paragraph of our comment according to the
reviewer´s second point (paragraph 5), but we have not changed anything in response to
reviewer´s paraghraph 4, as we think this has already been covered by Onkelinx.
Last paragraph. Line 37-46.
Our response: We take this as if our decision to publish open access was OK. We do not
understand the meaning of the rest of the paragraph and what the problem is. Hence, we did not
change anything in response to this.
Jens Rydell on behalf of co-authors
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171630.R1)
17-Nov-2017
Dear Dr Rydell,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Reply to “Comment on Age of
enlightenment: long-term effects of outdoor aesthetic lights on churches” by T. Onkelinx" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
