From tissue to silicon to plastic: three-dimensional printing
in comparative anatomy and physiology
Henrik Lauridsen, Kasper Hansen, Mathias Ørum Nørgård, Tobias Wang and Michael
Pedersen
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150643.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150643
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 November 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 27 January 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 28 January 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150643.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Colleen Farmer)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, it is clear how to access all supporting data and supplementary material
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper is a wonderful contribution and will be an invaluable resource for scientists and
educators who wish to use the revolution in computer science and imaging technologies to create
accurate plastic models of anatomy. The authors have done a service to the community by clearly
describing how to go about making these models.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (JULIA MOLNAR)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The article discusses the use of 3D printing to communicate research findings and educate
students about comparative anatomy. The authors describe the history of this technology, its
benefits, and how to use it. In the figures and supplementary information they provide examples
of how 3D printing can be used in comparative anatomy.
Learning about the benefits and process of 3D printing would be very useful for comparative
anatomists. The step-by-step overview of the process is well-researched. Through the figures, the
authors do a great job of showing the potential benefits of this technology in the field of
comparative anatomy. I would suggest a few minor revisions to the discussion to make the
manuscript more useful for the target audience.
As the authors acknowledge, 3D printing is already being used in medicine and
medical/veterinary education (and palaeontology; see below). Therefore, I think the manuscript
would be improved by a deeper, more focused discussion of the specific ways the technology can
be used in comparative anatomy. The figures are helpful, but discussion of how these examples
represent improvements over current technology is somewhat scattered (some in the Printing
3
section, some in Benefits and Concerns). Likewise, any advice for beginners on how to adapt
standard scanning techniques for animal specimens would be welcome (e.g., you should remove
specimens from alcohol before scanning, and I’ve heard that you can scan live reptiles after
putting them in the refrigerator for a while).
There are two relevant topics that the authors touch upon but do not fully discuss or reference:
3D printing in paleontology (e.g., Tschopp, E. and Dzemski, G., 2012. 3-Dimensional
Reproduction Techniques to preserve and spread paleontological material – a case study with a
diplodocid Sauropod neck. Journal of Paleontological Techniques, 10: 1-8), and experimental
studies on the use of 3D printed models in anatomy education (e.g. Preece, Daniel, et al. "“Let's
Get Physical”: Advantages of a physical model over 3D computer models and textbooks in
learning imaging anatomy." Anatomical sciences education 6.4 (2013): 216-224).
Please proofread carefully for English grammar.
Specific comments:
Title page: Instead of using “silicon” (which could also be a material) for the virtual step, how
about "voxels" or "bytes" or similar?
Lines 85-86: “Knowing which imaging technology to be utilised in the image acquisition step is
pivotal for optimal sample preparation” – confusing sentence, please re-word
Line 89: please clarify what is meant by “solid tissue”
Line 90: “unspecific” – word choice?
Line 112: “heavy element structures” – please clarify what is meant by this
Lines 125-128: “Two dimensional image analysis does not require isotropic image acquisitions,
i.e. image resolution is not equal to slice thickness, which is often the case in more traditional
biological imaging techniques such as multiple slice microscopy or z-stack generation in confocal
microscopy.” – Confusing sentence. Please re-word and explain “isotropic” in a way that will be
clear to non-specialists.
Lines 142-150: This technique is commonly known as photogrammetry (e.g. Falkingham, Peter L.
2012. Acquisition of high resolution 3D models using free, open-source, photogrammetric
software. Palaeontologia Electronica Vol. 15, Issue 1; 1T:15p; palaeo-
electronica.org/content/issue-1-2012-technical-articles/92-3d-photogrammetry).
Lines 155-156: Do Osirix and ImageJ allow you to export meshes suitable for printing? I thought
they were just for visualization. I have heard that there is a freeware option for making meshes,
but I can't recall the name of the program.
Line 158: Materialise Mimics is another popular segmentation program
Lines 208-222: This probably belongs in “benefits and concerns”
Lines 230-237: This probably belongs in “benefits and concerns”
Line 292 “taking” should be “taken”
4
Lines 292-303: This is a very interesting idea. However, it is not clear from the paragraph as
written whether the authors see it as a benefit (I assume they do) or specifically how it could be
used (education?)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150643)
12-Jan-2016
Dear Mr Lauridsen
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150643 entitled
"From tissue to silicon to plastic: 3D printing in comparative anatomy and physiology" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150643
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
5
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 21-Jan-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
6
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Matthew Allinson
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author ( Dr Monica Daley):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
As you will see, both reviewers are very positive about the contribution of this paper as a
resource to the comparative anatomy and physiology community. I would therefore be happy to
see a revised version of this manuscript that addresses the minor comments for revision raised by
Reviewer 1.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The article discusses the use of 3D printing to communicate research findings and educate
students about comparative anatomy. The authors describe the history of this technology, its
benefits, and how to use it. In the figures and supplementary information they provide examples
of how 3D printing can be used in comparative anatomy.
Learning about the benefits and process of 3D printing would be very useful for comparative
anatomists. The step-by-step overview of the process is well-researched. Through the figures, the
authors do a great job of showing the potential benefits of this technology in the field of
comparative anatomy. I would suggest a few minor revisions to the discussion to make the
manuscript more useful for the target audience.
As the authors acknowledge, 3D printing is already being used in medicine and
medical/veterinary education (and palaeontology; see below). Therefore, I think the manuscript
would be improved by a deeper, more focused discussion of the specific ways the technology can
be used in comparative anatomy. The figures are helpful, but discussion of how these examples
represent improvements over current technology is somewhat scattered (some in the Printing
section, some in Benefits and Concerns). Likewise, any advice for beginners on how to adapt
standard scanning techniques for animal specimens would be welcome (e.g., you should remove
specimens from alcohol before scanning, and I’ve heard that you can scan live reptiles after
putting them in the refrigerator for a while).
There are two relevant topics that the authors touch upon but do not fully discuss or reference:
3D printing in paleontology (e.g., Tschopp, E. and Dzemski, G., 2012. 3-Dimensional
Reproduction Techniques to preserve and spread paleontological material – a case study with a
diplodocid Sauropod neck. Journal of Paleontological Techniques, 10: 1-8), and experimental
studies on the use of 3D printed models in anatomy education (e.g. Preece, Daniel, et al. "“Let's
7
Get Physical”: Advantages of a physical model over 3D computer models and textbooks in
learning imaging anatomy." Anatomical sciences education 6.4 (2013): 216-224).
Please proofread carefully for English grammar.
Specific comments:
Title page: Instead of using “silicon” (which could also be a material) for the virtual step, how
about "voxels" or "bytes" or similar?
Lines 85-86: “Knowing which imaging technology to be utilised in the image acquisition step is
pivotal for optimal sample preparation” – confusing sentence, please re-word
Line 89: please clarify what is meant by “solid tissue”
Line 90: “unspecific” – word choice?
Line 112: “heavy element structures” – please clarify what is meant by this
Lines 125-128: “Two dimensional image analysis does not require isotropic image acquisitions,
i.e. image resolution is not equal to slice thickness, which is often the case in more traditional
biological imaging techniques such as multiple slice microscopy or z-stack generation in confocal
microscopy.” – Confusing sentence. Please re-word and explain “isotropic” in a way that will be
clear to non-specialists.
Lines 142-150: This technique is commonly known as photogrammetry (e.g. Falkingham, Peter L.
2012. Acquisition of high resolution 3D models using free, open-source, photogrammetric
software. Palaeontologia Electronica Vol. 15, Issue 1; 1T:15p; palaeo-
electronica.org/content/issue-1-2012-technical-articles/92-3d-photogrammetry).
Lines 155-156: Do Osirix and ImageJ allow you to export meshes suitable for printing? I thought
they were just for visualization. I have heard that there is a freeware option for making meshes,
but I can't recall the name of the program.
Line 158: Materialise Mimics is another popular segmentation program
Lines 208-222: This probably belongs in “benefits and concerns”
Lines 230-237: This probably belongs in “benefits and concerns”
Line 292 “taking” should be “taken”
Lines 292-303: This is a very interesting idea. However, it is not clear from the paragraph as
written whether the authors see it as a benefit (I assume they do) or specifically how it could be
used (education?)
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper is a wonderful contribution and will be an invaluable resource for scientists and
educators who wish to use the revolution in computer science and imaging technologies to create
accurate plastic models of anatomy. The authors have done a service to the community by clearly
describing how to go about making these models.
8
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150643)
See Appendix A.
pendix A
r Editor
wish to express our gratitude to the editors and referees for providing thoughtful comments and
gestions for improvements to the manuscript. In this ‘Response to referees’ document we address all
nts raised by the editor and referees (our response is in red). We hope that you will find the revised
nuscript fit for publication and again want to thank you for a swift and good review process.
t regards
authors
__________________________________________________________________________________
an-2016
r Mr Lauridsen
behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150643 entitled "From
ue to silicon to plastic: 3D printing in comparative anatomy and physiology" has been accepted for
lication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee
gestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
sions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
nuscript.
hics statement
our study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received, including
name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail whether
rmed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all permissions,
nces and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
ethics statement was included in the ‘Sample preparation’ section of the ‘Materials and Methods’. In
ition we have added a separate ‘Ethics statement’ section to the end of the manuscript.
ata accessibility
a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as supplementary
rmation or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data accessibility section should state
re the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section should also include details, where
sible of where to access other relevant research materials such as statistical tools, protocols,
ware etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in an external repository this section
uld list the database, accession number and link to the DOI for all data from the article that has been
de publicly available. Data sets that have been deposited in an external repository and have a DOI
uld also be appropriately cited in the manuscript and included in the reference list.
ou wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify your
ent submission to dryad, please use the following link:
://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150643
have made interactive models and ready-to-3D-print files available via Dryad Digital Repository. All
’s are listed in Table 1 as specified in the ‘Data accessibility’ section in the end of the manuscript. As
understand it these DOI’s will be activated by Dryad following acceptance of the paper.
ompeting interests
ase declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no competing
rests.
have stated that we have no competing interests in the appropriate section in the end of the
nuscript.
uthors’ contributions
submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions section
ch individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors should meet all of the
owing criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or acquisition of data, or
lysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual
tent; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
ontributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the acknowledgements.
suggest the following format:
carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence alignments,
ticipated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out the statistical
lyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study, coordinated the study
helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for publication.
Authors contribution’ section is available in the end of the manuscript.
cknowledgements
ase acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship criteria.
Acknowledgements’ section is available in the end of the manuscript.
nding statement
ase list the source of funding for each author.
nding statement is available in the end of the manuscript.
ause the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit the
sed version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 21-Jan-2016). If you do not think you will be
to meet this date please let me know immediately.
revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your Author
tre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions". Under
tions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally
mitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload a new version through
r Author Centre.
en submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the
rees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to
ument any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the
sed manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees.
en uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions) and
re captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format should be
duced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
ncluded a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please ensure
have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user account
ncluded the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your data as
tronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi within your
nuscript
ncluded your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers, vancouver
rencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in production
e again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look forward
eceiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
t wishes
tthew Allinson
orial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
behalf of Kevin Padian
ject Editor, Royal Society Open Science openscience@royalsociety.org
ociate Editor Comments to Author ( Dr Monica Daley):
ociate Editor: 1
ments to the Author:
you will see, both reviewers are very positive about the contribution of this paper as a resource to
comparative anatomy and physiology community. I would therefore be happy to see a revised
sion of this manuscript that addresses the minor comments for revision raised by Reviewer 1.
iewer comments to Author:
iewer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
article discusses the use of 3D printing to communicate research findings and educate students
ut comparative anatomy. The authors describe the history of this technology, its benefits, and how
se it. In the figures and supplementary information they provide examples of how 3D printing can be
d in comparative anatomy.
rning about the benefits and process of 3D printing would be very useful for comparative anatomists.
step-by-step overview of the process is well-researched. Through the figures, the authors do a great
of showing the potential benefits of this technology in the field of comparative anatomy. I would
gest a few minor revisions to the discussion to make the manuscript more useful for the target
ience.
the authors acknowledge, 3D printing is already being used in medicine and medical/veterinary
cation (and palaeontology; see below). Therefore, I think the manuscript would be improved by a
per, more focused discussion of the specific ways the technology can be used in comparative
tomy. The figures are helpful, but discussion of how these examples represent improvements over
ent technology is somewhat scattered (some in the Printing section, some in Benefits and Concerns).
wise, any advice for beginners on how to adapt standard scanning techniques for animal specimens
uld be welcome (e.g., you should remove specimens from alcohol before scanning, and I’ve heard
t you can scan live reptiles after putting them in the refrigerator for a while).
agree that the discussion of the benefits of applying 3D printing in the fields of comparative
tomy and physiology can be found both in the ‘Printing’ section and in the ‘Benefits and concerns’
ion. The idea behind this is to discuss benefits of the actual 3D printed models included in the
sent study in the ‘Printing’ section and reserve the ‘Benefits and concerns’ section to a general
ussion of pros and cons of using 3D printing in comparative anatomy and physiology.
are a bit reluctant to include further details for beginners about standard scanning techniques for
mal specimens. We believe that this is slightly off the topic, and also there is a vast literature
cribing different anaesthetics for various animal species.
re are two relevant topics that the authors touch upon but do not fully discuss or reference: 3D
ting in paleontology (e.g., Tschopp, E. and Dzemski, G., 2012. 3-Dimensional Reproduction
hniques to preserve and spread paleontological material – a case study with a diplodocid Sauropod
k. Journal of Paleontological Techniques, 10: 1-8), and experimental studies on the use of 3D printed
dels in anatomy education (e.g. Preece, Daniel, et al. "“Let's Get Physical”: Advantages of a physical
del over 3D computer models and textbooks in learning imaging anatomy." Anatomical sciences
cation 6.4 (2013): 216-224).
se are very good points. We have included the references at the appropriate passages in the
nuscript.
ase proofread carefully for English grammar.
nuscript has been proof read for English grammar.
cific comments:
e page: Instead of using “silicon” (which could also be a material) for the virtual step, how about
xels" or "bytes" or similar?
understand the reviewer’s concern about silicon also being a material. The use of ‘silicon’ in the title
spired from the term in silico meaning that something is performed on a computer or is in a virtual
e. Therefore, the wordplay of the title is that anatomy in vivo is modelled in silico and finally
roduced in plastic (in plastico) or any other build material. We are inclined to keep the title as it is in
er not to interfere with this wordplay. Also the use of the term in silico is further explained in the
inning of the final paragraph of the ‘Background’ section.
s 85-86: “Knowing which imaging technology to be utilised in the image acquisition step is pivotal for
imal sample preparation” – confusing sentence, please re-word
tence has been rephrased.
89: please clarify what is meant by “solid tissue”
has been clarified.
90: “unspecific” – word choice?
specific’ has been changed to ‘non-specific’.
112: “heavy element structures” – please clarify what is meant by this
has been clarified.
s 125-128: “Two dimensional image analysis does not require isotropic image acquisitions, i.e. image
olution is not equal to slice thickness, which is often the case in more traditional biological imaging
hniques such as multiple slice microscopy or z-stack generation in confocal microscopy.” – Confusing
tence. Please re-word and explain “isotropic” in a way that will be clear to non-specialists.
tence has been rephrased.
s 142-150: This technique is commonly known as photogrammetry (e.g. Falkingham, Peter L. 2012.
uisition of high resolution 3D models using free, open-source, photogrammetric software.
eontologia Electronica Vol. 15, Issue 1; 1T:15p; palaeo-electronica.org/content/issue-1-2012-
hnical-articles/92-3d-photogrammetry).
term ‘photogrammetry’ has been added to the paragraph.
s 155-156: Do Osirix and ImageJ allow you to export meshes suitable for printing? I thought they
e just for visualization. I have heard that there is a freeware option for making meshes, but I can't
all the name of the program.
, both Osirix and ImageJ allow you to produce surface renderings that can be exported as meshes for
ting.
158: Materialise Mimics is another popular segmentation program
have no experience using this software (Materialise Mimics), and for the sake of keeping things
ple we are inclined not to include this information in the manuscript already teeming with various
ware types.
s 208-222: This probably belongs in “benefits and concerns”
s 230-237: This probably belongs in “benefits and concerns”
understand where the reviewer is going with the two above comments, however we think the two
agraphs fit better at their current position in the text. Both of them elaborate on or discuss printing
hnologies (binder jetting with artificial or true colours) in relation to models printed in this paper. The
nefits and concerns’ section deal with pros and cons of using 3D printing in general and not
cifically related to models produced in this study.
292 “taking” should be “taken”
ing’ has been replaced by ‘taken’.
s 292-303: This is a very interesting idea. However, it is not clear from the paragraph as written
ther the authors see it as a benefit (I assume they do) or specifically how it could be used
ucation?)
agree and have added a final sentence to the paragraph to highlight the potential benefits of the
nomenon.
iewer: 2
ments to the Author(s)
paper is a wonderful contribution and will be an invaluable resource for scientists and educators
o wish to use the revolution in computer science and imaging technologies to create accurate plastic
dels of anatomy. The authors have done a service to the community by clearly describing how to go
ut making these models.
Society Open
