Loss of safety in numbers and a novel driver of mass
migration: radiotelemetry reveals heavy wasp predation on
a band of Mormon crickets
Robert B. Srygley and Patrick D. Lorch
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160113.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160113
Review timeline
Original submission: 17 February 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 1 April 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 5 April 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160113.R0
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Nice job and very interesting finding.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Most of my previous comments have been adequately addressed in this revision. I still have some
minor comments:
There is still no mention of how crickets were selected for tagging/ tracking. Was it a random
selection, or did you systematically choose an equal number of males and females?
Lines 122-123: Was this the method that you used to identify prey? Or did you identify prey as
tagged crickets that were not recovered. Please state more definitively. For instance, you could
add the sentence,
“Some radiotagged Mormon crickets were dug from burrows in the soil, and these were
inspected for parasitoid wasp eggs and paralysis. Paralysed crickets and crickets with attached
wasp eggs or larvae were scored as prey”.
Line 258: You may also want to mention here that in some katydid relatives, the mobile sex may
experience more mortality than the displaying sex (Heller 1992 Naturwissenschaften “Risk shift
between males and females in the pair-forming behavior of bushcrickets”)
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160113)
31-Mar-2016
Dear Dr Srygley
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160113 entitled
"Loss of safety in numbers and a novel driver of mass migration: Radiotelemetry reveals heavy
wasp predation on a band of Mormon crickets" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find
the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160113
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
4
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 09-Apr-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Nice job and very interesting finding.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Most of my previous comments have been adequately addressed in this revision. I still have some
minor comments:
There is still no mention of how crickets were selected for tagging/ tracking. Was it a random
selection, or did you systematically choose an equal number of males and females?
Lines 122-123: Was this the method that you used to identify prey? Or did you identify prey as
tagged crickets that were not recovered. Please state more definitively. For instance, you could
add the sentence,
“Some radiotagged Mormon crickets were dug from burrows in the soil, and these were
inspected for parasitoid wasp eggs and paralysis. Paralysed crickets and crickets with attached
wasp eggs or larvae were scored as prey”.
Line 258: You may also want to mention here that in some katydid relatives, the mobile sex may
experience more mortality than the displaying sex (Heller 1992 Naturwissenschaften “Risk shift
between males and females in the pair-forming behavior of bushcrickets”)
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160113)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Response to Referees:
Reviewer’s comment: There is still no mention of how crickets
were selected for tagging/ tracking. Was it a random selection,
or did you systematically choose an equal number of males and
females?
Reply: We did not systematically choose an equal number of each
sex, but selection was not random either. We simply collected
Mormon crickets until we had enough to put an equal number of
radiotags on each sex. Because we applied the same collecting
effort to both sexes and ended up with a near equal sex ratio, we
can conclude that the sex ratio was not skewed. In line 111, we
have added that ‘an equal number of male and female Mormon
crickets were collected from the band…’ In line 153, we state
‘From our relative efficiencies of capturing the two sexes for tagging, there was no
evidence that the band was biased from an even sex ratio.’
Lines 122-123: Was this the method that you used to identify
prey? Or did you identify prey as tagged crickets that were not
recovered. Please state more definitively. For instance, you
could add the sentence,
“Some radiotagged Mormon crickets were dug from burrows in the
soil, and these were inspected for parasitoid wasp eggs and
paralysis. Paralysed crickets and crickets with attached wasp
eggs or larvae were scored as prey”.
Reply: Added the sentence ‘Paralyzed crickets and crickets with
attached wasp eggs or larvae were scored as prey’ at line 124.
Line 258: You may also want to mention here that in some katydid
relatives, the mobile sex may experience more mortality than the
displaying sex (Heller 1992 Naturwissenschaften “Risk shift
between males and females in the pair-forming behavior of
bushcrickets”)
Reply: The Heller 1992 paper actually indicates that there is no
difference in survivorship between the sexes when one sex
displays and the other moves towards the signal. In contrast, if
one sex displays, the other responds, and then the first moves
toward the respondent, mortality was much greater in the moving
sex. Added at lines 263-268: ‘In Poecilimon bushcrickets,
survivorship of males and females was not different when one sex
displays and the other moves towards the signal (Heller 1992).
In contrast, if one sex displays, the other responds discretely,
and then the first moves toward the respondent, mortality was
much greater in the moving sex. Because the former scenario is
more like that for Mormon crickets, predation should be even
between the sexes.’
Society Open
