Microelastic mapping of the rat dentate gyrus
Tomás Luque, Michael S. Kang, David. V. Schaffer and Sanjay Kumar
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150702.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150702
Review timeline
Original submission: 26 December 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 March 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 24 March 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150702.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Luque et al. use atomic force microscope indentation to characterize the mechanical properties of
dentate gyrus in the young rat. It’s a well-designed study that is a bit limited in its scope and
conclusions. The title is completely misleading however. It is the study of dentate gyrus
mechanical properties, and calling it “neural stem cell niche” is a little bit of a stretch especially
considering that no additional measurements were made to focus on NSCs. Others have shown
that these cells reside in this zone but the authors show no evidence of their existence in the
tissues they have prepared or that these cells exist and if so they are still alive in the tissue
sections prepared.
There have been other measurements of dentate gyrus as mentioned in the response even though
they were at lower spatial resolution. In fact, that paper looked at the depth dependence of
modulus in dentate gyrus and showed the nonlinearity albeit only in the SGZ layer. So the claim
of novelty for nonlinearity is untrue. No measurements were made to test the components that
are speculated as potential reasons for the variation. Given the various studies that have looked
at the spatial mechanics of hippocampus, this reviewer thinks that the authors should present at
least some evidence on the mechanisms of spatial variation: cell numbers, cytoskeletal variation,
matrix composition, etc.
The authors tout the semi-automated contact point detection using the two-part least squares
fitting, which was originally published by Costa and coworkers in a number of their papers. They
also discuss the effects of error propagation for accurate contact point identification using this
fitting technique. A similar automated method was also published by Dimitriadis, which was also
not acknowledged.
Figure 2 should be reworked to better show the differences in depth dependence. Perhaps a
contour plot or a second chart outlining the derivative of modulus vs. depth could be helpful.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The supplementary data is acceptable. A couple of suggestions for improvement:
-provide a key for explaining the physical meaning of labels, e.g. what does 'a','b','c','d'...
represent?
-explain what the locations highlighted pink indicate
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
3
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This study provides data that is relevant to the stem cell biomechanics community and has
practical applications for in vitro culture of stem cells. The following comments should be
considered as minor revisions to the manuscript prior to publication:
Abstract:
-Please qualify the reported elastic modulus as the "apparent" elastic modulus because it is depth
dependent and thus you are reporting the apparent modulus at specific indentation depths. In
addition, the indentation depth used for the reported modulus values in the abstract should be
specified or if it is the average of all indentation depths, that should be stated. Please clarify.
Methods:
-How was the nylon mesh used to fix the slices. Was it weighted? If so, was there some residual
deformation of the tissue? A comment here would be helpful.
Results:
-The means reported on page 4, line 33 - are these for a specific indentation depth?
-Top line on page 5 - suggest removing the reference to cell death in the hippocampus associated
with concussion. This is a misattribution. Other references could be used to support the statement
that the hippocampus is particularly vulnerable in experimental models of TBI.
-Figure 2, caption - It is not immediately clear that the second and third sentence of the caption
refer to the representative force curve. Make this clear either by explicitly stating it or using (A)
and (B) labels in the figure.
Discussion:
-Include a discussion of the limitations of the study. For example, testing a cut surface of tissue
and tissue that is not at physiologic temperature.
-What indentation depth might be relevant to cultured cells? In other words, what modulus
should be used to generate an appropriate mechanical niche if nonlinearity seen here cannot be
recreated?
-To address another reviewer's comments about the effect of age on apparent elastic modulus, see
Elkin et al., 2010 in J Biomech Eng - Age-dependent regional mechanical properties of the rat
hippocampus and cortex
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150702)
10-Mar-2016
Dear Dr. Kang,
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150702 entitled
"Microelastic Mapping of the Hippocampal Neural Stem Cell Niche" will become suitable for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please focus particularly on the comments provided by reviewer 2 and please
provide a description of how your present findings go beyond existing work in this area.
Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
4
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150702
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
5
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 19-Mar-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Katrin Rittinger
Associate Editor: 2
Comments to the Author:
This article is well written and scientifically sound. I think it would be a good fit for publication
once proper changes are made in response to the two reviews.
6
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Luque et al. use atomic force microscope indentation to characterize the mechanical properties of
dentate gyrus in the young rat. It’s a well-designed study that is a bit limited in its scope and
conclusions. The title is completely misleading however. It is the study of dentate gyrus
mechanical properties, and calling it “neural stem cell niche” is a little bit of a stretch especially
considering that no additional measurements were made to focus on NSCs. Others have shown
that these cells reside in this zone but the authors show no evidence of their existence in the
tissues they have prepared or that these cells exist and if so they are still alive in the tissue
sections prepared.
There have been other measurements of dentate gyrus as mentioned in the response even though
they were at lower spatial resolution. In fact, that paper looked at the depth dependence of
modulus in dentate gyrus and showed the nonlinearity albeit only in the SGZ layer. So the claim
of novelty for nonlinearity is untrue. No measurements were made to test the components that
are speculated as potential reasons for the variation. Given the various studies that have looked
at the spatial mechanics of hippocampus, this reviewer thinks that the authors should present at
least some evidence on the mechanisms of spatial variation: cell numbers, cytoskeletal variation,
matrix composition, etc.
The authors tout the semi-automated contact point detection using the two-part least squares
fitting, which was originally published by Costa and coworkers in a number of their papers. They
also discuss the effects of error propagation for accurate contact point identification using this
fitting technique. A similar automated method was also published by Dimitriadis, which was also
not acknowledged.
Figure 2 should be reworked to better show the differences in depth dependence. Perhaps a
contour plot or a second chart outlining the derivative of modulus vs. depth could be helpful.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This study provides data that is relevant to the stem cell biomechanics community and has
practical applications for in vitro culture of stem cells. The following comments should be
considered as minor revisions to the manuscript prior to publication:
Abstract:
-Please qualify the reported elastic modulus as the "apparent" elastic modulus because it is depth
dependent and thus you are reporting the apparent modulus at specific indentation depths. In
addition, the indentation depth used for the reported modulus values in the abstract should be
specified or if it is the average of all indentation depths, that should be stated. Please clarify.
Methods:
-How was the nylon mesh used to fix the slices. Was it weighted? If so, was there some residual
deformation of the tissue? A comment here would be helpful.
Results:
-The means reported on page 4, line 33 - are these for a specific indentation depth?
-Top line on page 5 - suggest removing the reference to cell death in the hippocampus associated
with concussion. This is a misattribution. Other references could be used to support the statement
that the hippocampus is particularly vulnerable in experimental models of TBI.
7
-Figure 2, caption - It is not immediately clear that the second and third sentence of the caption
refer to the representative force curve. Make this clear either by explicitly stating it or using (A)
and (B) labels in the figure.
Discussion:
-Include a discussion of the limitations of the study. For example, testing a cut surface of tissue
and tissue that is not at physiologic temperature.
-What indentation depth might be relevant to cultured cells? In other words, what modulus
should be used to generate an appropriate mechanical niche if nonlinearity seen here cannot be
recreated?
-To address another reviewer's comments about the effect of age on apparent elastic modulus, see
Elkin et al., 2010 in J Biomech Eng - Age-dependent regional mechanical properties of the rat
hippocampus and cortex
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150702)
See Appendix A.
ponse to Reviewers
rnal of the Royal Society Open Access - RSOS-150702
uque, M.S. Kang, K. Georgiou, S. Kumar, D.V. Schaffer
roelastic Mapping of the Hippocampal Neural Stem Cell Niche
iewer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
que et al. use atomic force microscope indentation to characterize the mechanical properties of
tate gyrus in the young rat. It’s a well-designed study that is a bit limited in its scope and conclusions.
title is completely misleading however. It is the study of dentate gyrus mechanical properties, and
ing it “neural stem cell niche” is a little bit of a stretch especially considering that no additional
asurements were made to focus on NSCs. Others have shown that these cells reside in this zone but
authors show no evidence of their existence in the tissues they have prepared or that these cells exist
if so they are still alive in the tissue sections prepared.
study was focused on examining the subanatomical features that neural stem cells reside in and
rate through during development. To highlight this, we have changed the title of the paper to
croelastic Mapping of the Rat Dentate Gyrus.”
ere have been other measurements of dentate gyrus as mentioned in the response even though they
e at lower spatial resolution. In fact, that paper looked at the depth dependence of modulus in
tate gyrus and showed the nonlinearity albeit only in the SGZ layer. So the claim of novelty for
linearity is untrue. No measurements were made to test the components that are speculated as
ential reasons for the variation. Given the various studies that have looked at the spatial mechanics
ippocampus, this reviewer thinks that the authors should present at least some evidence on the
hanisms of spatial variation: cell numbers, cytoskeletal variation, matrix composition, etc.
apologize for an unclear statement of novelty, and have amended the manuscript to clarify. Previous
dies have shown nonlinear elastic behavior for the SGZ, but we show here for the first time that the
displays this property, while the H does not appear to. Such mechanistic studies as suggested are
l worth considering in future work, but are currently outside the scope of this manuscript in addition
eing technically challenging animal experiments.
e authors tout the semi-automated contact point detection using the two-part least squares fitting,
ch was originally published by Costa and coworkers in a number of their papers. They also discuss the
cts of error propagation for accurate contact point identification using this fitting technique. A
ilar automated method was also published by Dimitriadis, which was also not acknowledged.
manuscript has been edited to acknowledge these works and our statement of novelty has been
usted appropriately.
ure 2 should be reworked to better show the differences in depth dependence. Perhaps a contour
or a second chart outlining the derivative of modulus vs. depth could be helpful.
have a new panel to Figure 2 (Fig. 2B) showing the derivative of modulus vs. depth for each location
bed.
iewer: 2
ments to the Author(s)
study provides data that is relevant to the stem cell biomechanics community and has practical
lications for in vitro culture of stem cells. The following comments should be considered as minor
sions to the manuscript prior to publication.
ease qualify the reported elastic modulus as the "apparent" elastic modulus because it is depth
endent and thus you are reporting the apparent modulus at specific indentation depths. In addition,
indentation depth used for the reported modulus values in the abstract should be specified or if it is
average of all indentation depths, that should be stated. Please clarify.
manuscript has been edited for clarity re: “apparent” depth-dependent elastic modulus (referred to
), and the abstract has been clarified – the numbers reported are for the lowest indentation depth.
reason for this is that the Hertz model holds for materials in the elastic limit, and therefore the
bers for the shallowest indentation are the most accurate.
w was the nylon mesh used to fix the slices. Was it weighted? If so, was there some residual
ormation of the tissue? A comment here would be helpful.
on fibers were strung in parallel across a steel O ring with 2mm spacing, and the weight of the O ring
d the slice down to the dish. Elastic fibers and a wide spacing were used in order to prevent large
ormation of the tissue, and each measurement point was spaced more than a millimeter away from
fibers.
e means reported on page 4, line 33 - are these for a specific indentation depth?
se reported means are for the lowest indentation depth 500nm, and this has been clarified in the
.
p line on page 5 - suggest removing the reference to cell death in the hippocampus associated with
cussion. This is a misattribution. Other references could be used to support the statement that the
pocampus is particularly vulnerable in experimental models of TBI.
reference has been replaced with a reference to a 2011 review, “Decoding Hippocampal Signaling
icits after Traumatic Brain Injury” by Coleen Atkins in Translational Stroke Research, which reviews
ings re: hippocampal atrophy, changes in long term potentiation, and long term changes in the
pocampal proteome.
ure 2, caption - It is not immediately clear that the second and third sentence of the caption refer to
representative force curve. Make this clear either by explicitly stating it or using (A) and (B) labels in
figure.
caption has been adjusted to explicitly indicate which components of the graph they refer to.
lude a discussion of the limitations of the study. For example, testing a cut surface of tissue and tissue
t is not at physiologic temperature.
itional discussion has been added as suggested.
at indentation depth might be relevant to cultured cells? In other words, what modulus should be
d to generate an appropriate mechanical niche if nonlinearity seen here cannot be recreated?
thank the reviewer for raising a very interesting question. We expect that the relevant indentation
th would depend on amount of strain exerted onto the surrounding matrix by forces in the brain.
rk by Discher and colleagues1 has demonstrated that mesenchymal stem cells have a characteristic
ile depth of less than 5µm, and studies in humans has shown that the displacement of brain tissue
erebral blood flow can cause deformations even higher, up to tens of micrometers2. However, it is
very possible that the nonlinearity is a critical component of recapitulating the stem cells niche, as it
been shown that nonlinear material properties can affect stem cell behavior3. Therefore the answer
he question depends very much on the specific question or hypothesis being addressed.
address another reviewer's comments about the effect of age on apparent elastic modulus, see Elkin
l., 2010 in J Biomech Eng - Age-dependent regional mechanical properties of the rat hippocampus
cortex.
ress to the previous reviewer’s comments about the effect of age has also been appended to the
ussion, in addition to the suggested reference. We thank the reviewer for their suggestion!
erences
1. Buxboim, A., Rajagopal, K., Brown, A.E.X., Discher, D.E. How deeply cells feel: methods for thin
gels. J Phys Condens Matter 22, 19 (2010)
2. Kucewicz, J.C., Dunmire, B., Leotta, D.F., Panagiotides, H., Paun, M., Beach, K.W. Functional
Tissue Pulsatility Imaging of the Brain During Visual Stimulation. Ultrasound in Medicine &
Biology 33, 681-690 (2007).
3. Chaudhuri O., Gu L., Klumpers D., Darnell M., Bencherif S.A., Weaver J.C., Huebsch N., Lee H.P.,
Lippens E.2., Duda G.N., Mooney D.J. Hydrogels with tunable stress relaxation regulate stem cell
fate and activity. Nat Mater. 15, 326-34 (2016)
Society Open
