Experimentally induced social threat increases paranoid
thinking
Vanessa Saalfeld, Zeina Ramadan, Vaughan Bell and Nichola J. Raihani
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180569.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180569
Review timeline
Original submission: 12 April 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 7 June 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 28 June 2018 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 2 July 2018
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180569.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Adam Bulley)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see the attached review file (Appendix A).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In the present work, the authors investigate the relationship between paranoia and attributions of
harmful intent to others. They use a 2 stage paradigm, in which participants first complete
relevant questionnaires (including one assessing paranoia, SES and political affiliation) and then
10 days later participate in dictator game (DG) in one of 2 variants: Either varying the SES of the
Dictator (higher, lower or equal to the participant’s SES) or varying the political affiliation of the
Dictator (different or same political stance). They assess attributions of harmful intent and
selfishness to the Dictator. The authors find that paranoia leads to greater attributions of harmful
intent overall, and that those in the out-group conditions (Dictator was of different party or
higher SES) attributed more harmful intent, but do not find a predicted interaction between these
variables.
Overall I have no major issues with the paper. It is concise, lays out (pre-registered) predictions
clearly and tests them in a reasonable way. Despite finding an influence of the manipulations in
both tasks on relevant variables (attributions of self-interest), no interaction with paranoia and
out-group status or higher-social status was found.
3
I do, however, have a few minor questions and suggestions. In addressing these, I believe the
manuscript would be improved.
First, the authors might consider a power-analysis – if the authors want to claim that they truly
do not find an interaction between paranoia and the manipulations in their two DGs, then a
power analysis (or a Bayes factor analysis) would provide some sense of how strongly we should
believe this null result.
Second, the authors note that they found an unexpected U-shape relationship between SES and
paranoia (line 262). Given this, I’d recommend that the authors re-run their analyses excluding
those individuals. It is possible that those who believe they are on the highest rungs of society
(and are highly paranoid) and yet are doing studies on MTurk are either incorrect or are lying.
Even if I’m incorrect about this, there is clearly something different about these individuals. At
least by my initial analyses of their data, excluding these subjects does not change the authors’
results, and so including this analysis (potentially just in the supplemental data) would give
greater confidence that the authors’ null results are not due to the strange pattern they observe
with this small number of subjects.
Third, for the social status variant of the task (line 157), what was done with participants who
responded 1 or 10? For these participants, they could not be assigned to the lower or higher
conditions (respectively). Given the 10 day delay, we might expect that these participants forgot
their particular response and so there is no issue. However, given that SES is a stable
characteristic, it is possible that those at the extreme ends of the SES range know that they are at
the extreme ends of the range and thus would be skeptical of this manipulation. If the authors
remove these subjects, do the same results hold?
Fourth, where was the conversion of the paranoia score (line 203) mentioned in the pre-
registration? There is a section in both pre-registrations where the authors mention that variables
will be “standardized” but transforming a count to an ordinal variable is not the same thing.
Perhaps I missed where this transformation is mentioned. But if not, that language should be
changed and it may be worth mentioning whether the analyses are the same with and without
this transformation.
Additional very minor notes:
- Typo – line 153: “… participants were case …”
- Line 250: The figshare link in the article (10.6084/m9.figshare.5441524) did not work, though the
one at the end of the article did
- Line 261: The overall relationship between paranoia and social status should be reported.
- It wasn’t clear why Table 2 is in italics when Table 1 is not.
- I could not actually run the authors’ code out of the box (e.g. code calls for file
“ParanoiaData.csv” when “ParanoiaData.xslx” was included in the online repository). They
should ensure that whatever they put in an online repository is useable by other researchers.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180569.R0)
05-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Raihani,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Experimentally-Induced Social Threat Increases Paranoid
4
Thinking") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below
(not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 28-Jun-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180569
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
5
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Thadcha Retneswaran
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof. Antonia Hamilton (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Please see the attached review file.
6
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
In the present work, the authors investigate the relationship between paranoia and attributions of
harmful intent to others. They use a 2 stage paradigm, in which participants first complete
relevant questionnaires (including one assessing paranoia, SES and political affiliation) and then
10 days later participate in dictator game (DG) in one of 2 variants: Either varying the SES of the
Dictator (higher, lower or equal to the participant’s SES) or varying the political affiliation of the
Dictator (different or same political stance). They assess attributions of harmful intent and
selfishness to the Dictator. The authors find that paranoia leads to greater attributions of harmful
intent overall, and that those in the out-group conditions (Dictator was of different party or
higher SES) attributed more harmful intent, but do not find a predicted interaction between these
variables.
Overall I have no major issues with the paper. It is concise, lays out (pre-registered) predictions
clearly and tests them in a reasonable way. Despite finding an influence of the manipulations in
both tasks on relevant variables (attributions of self-interest), no interaction with paranoia and
out-group status or higher-social status was found.
I do, however, have a few minor questions and suggestions. In addressing these, I believe the
manuscript would be improved.
First, the authors might consider a power-analysis – if the authors want to claim that they truly
do not find an interaction between paranoia and the manipulations in their two DGs, then a
power analysis (or a Bayes factor analysis) would provide some sense of how strongly we should
believe this null result.
Second, the authors note that they found an unexpected U-shape relationship between SES and
paranoia (line 262). Given this, I’d recommend that the authors re-run their analyses excluding
those individuals. It is possible that those who believe they are on the highest rungs of society
(and are highly paranoid) and yet are doing studies on MTurk are either incorrect or are lying.
Even if I’m incorrect about this, there is clearly something different about these individuals. At
least by my initial analyses of their data, excluding these subjects does not change the authors’
results, and so including this analysis (potentially just in the supplemental data) would give
greater confidence that the authors’ null results are not due to the strange pattern they observe
with this small number of subjects.
Third, for the social status variant of the task (line 157), what was done with participants who
responded 1 or 10? For these participants, they could not be assigned to the lower or higher
conditions (respectively). Given the 10 day delay, we might expect that these participants forgot
their particular response and so there is no issue. However, given that SES is a stable
characteristic, it is possible that those at the extreme ends of the SES range know that they are at
the extreme ends of the range and thus would be skeptical of this manipulation. If the authors
remove these subjects, do the same results hold?
Fourth, where was the conversion of the paranoia score (line 203) mentioned in the pre-
registration? There is a section in both pre-registrations where the authors mention that variables
will be “standardized” but transforming a count to an ordinal variable is not the same thing.
Perhaps I missed where this transformation is mentioned. But if not, that language should be
changed and it may be worth mentioning whether the analyses are the same with and without
this transformation.
7
Additional very minor notes:
- Typo – line 153: “… participants were case …”
- Line 250: The figshare link in the article (10.6084/m9.figshare.5441524) did not work, though the
one at the end of the article did
- Line 261: The overall relationship between paranoia and social status should be reported.
- It wasn’t clear why Table 2 is in italics when Table 1 is not.
- I could not actually run the authors’ code out of the box (e.g. code calls for file
“ParanoiaData.csv” when “ParanoiaData.xslx” was included in the online repository). They
should ensure that whatever they put in an online repository is useable by other researchers.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180569.R0)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-180569.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Adam Bulley)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
Please see attached review file (Appendix C).
8
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180569.R1)
27-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Raihani:
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180569.R1
entitled "Experimentally-Induced Social Threat Increases Paranoid Thinking" has been accepted
for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180569.R1
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
9
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript before ##AUTHOR_DUE_DATE##. Please note that the
revision deadline will expire at 00.00am on this date. If you do not think you will be able to meet
this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
10
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science charge article processing charges for all new
submissions that are accepted for publication. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to
Royal Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers
submitted as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is newly submitted and
subsequently accepted for publication, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof. Antonia Hamilton (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
Please see attached review file.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180569.R1)
See Appendix D.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180569.R2)
02-Jul-2018
Dear Dr Raihani,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Experimentally-Induced Social Threat
Increases Paranoid Thinking" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
11
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Antonia Hamilton (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Review: Experimentally-Induced Social Threat Increases
Paranoid Thinking
Comments for the authors:
This paper describes a fascinating, methodologically elegant,
and rigorous approach to understanding the causal influences of
peer social status and political affiliation on the attribution of
harmful intentions. It was mostly very compelling, but I have a
number of reservations that I describe in detail in the following. I
would be happy to recommend this paper for publication if these
points are addressed – they are all intended to make an
incremental improvement to an already strong manuscript.
Apologies for my lengthy review – I really liked the paper, which
made it easy to read in a lot of detail!
In general, I think some of the theoretical grounding and
conclusions derived need to be unpacked somewhat. The main
conceptual issue is with regards to what exactly makes an
inference ‘paranoid’. For instance, I wonder if at times you are a
bit quick to describe behaviour as reflecting “paranoid
attributions” rather than simply (and perhaps more accurately)
“attributions of harmful intent”. The former assumes that
attributions are erroneous, exaggerated, or out of proportion
(according to the definition you provide), which I do not think
you can necessarily ensure. I expand on this below in the
specific sections where it arises.
Introduction:
- Line 55: The opening sentence of the introduction is a bit
vague and is not sufficiently explained in the rest of the
paragraph. What exactly is “social danger” - this seems like
a central construct to define and detail for the reader in the
introduction somewhere, considering that it has various
definitions across disciplines. What would it mean to have
mechanisms “appropriately” attuned to social danger? Does
“appropriately” mean accurately? A problem arises from the
fact that systematic biases in cognition often appear to have
evolved because they are useful, so the claim that threat
detection mechanisms should be appropriately attuned is a
bit hard to parse.
- Your focus here is understandably on causal environmental
reasons for the variation in paranoia. However, I would
suggest that it might be worth qualifying with some mention
of the genetic determinants. A great deal of the individual
difference variation in this trait (and in all psychological traits)
is probably the random result of genetic variation in the
heritable contributors.
- Line 65: “Paranoia is more common in people with low
socioeconomic status or who live in poverty” – This
statement perhaps falsely implies that low SES and poverty
are two distinct constructs, but of course they are greatly
overlapping (with many perspectives subsuming ‘poverty’
under the construct of SES – which is a combined social and
economic index). It might be worth disentangling this here.
- Line 66: “Social adversity also manifests in terms
of discrimination and exclusion, and people from minority
ethnic backgrounds report higher levels of paranoia”. I am a
bit confused by this point. Your definition of paranoia is
“exaggerated fears of intentional harm”. How do we know
that people from minority ethnic backgrounds aren’t simply
accurately gauging intentional harm from others? – Indeed
this is implied by your claim that they face greater
discrimination and exclusion. However by using the term
‘paranoia’ as you define it at the start, you are implying that
the attributions of harm made by low SES people/ those from
minority backgrounds are not accurate. This issue applies
elsewhere in the manuscript, and in particular in the rest of
this paragraph. Unless I have missed the logic somewhere,
perhaps you should make sure that the definition of paranoia
as ‘exaggerated’ or ‘out of proportion’ applies to all of the
literature that you review in the introduction – I would
suspect that some of the uses are actually measuring
perceived social threat (perceptions that may indeed be
accurate).
- Line 71: You write: “Increasing evidence also suggests that
the subjective perception of one’s relative status in the world
is also an important predictor of paranoia, above and beyond
the objective presence of environmental adversity.” (my
emphasis). You then proceed to provide examples of
findings that show that low perceived social rank predicts
paranoid ideation and psychosis-proneness. As far as I can
tell, these example findings do not however demonstrate a
role for the subjective perception of status over and above
objective adversity. Couldn’t low perceived social rank be an
accurate assessment of actual adversity, thereby conflating
the two constructs?
- Line 86: In describing the results from Freeman et al. (2014),
the authors state that height is “a common marker for social
rank” without explaining this. Why is height a marker for
social rank, and what evidence supports this claim? Maybe
citing some correlations between height and social rank
outcomes would help. I realise that you are just using the
Freeman study to make a more general point, but I think the
‘marker’ of social rank is important – of course there may be
massive differences between how social rank is perceived
on the basis of height versus income (for example).
- Line 106: when discussing the dictator game, you write:
“This paradigm allows a measure of the tendency to infer
harmful intent as an ‘online’ or ‘live’ attribution.” – what
exactly does ‘online’ and ‘live’ mean in this context? “Live” is
used in a few places in the manuscript to describe
attributions, so I think it would be worth defining it if it means
something important or specific. If it means something like
‘attributions that take place in real time in response to
immediate behaviours of peers’, what is this in opposition to?
- e.g. are most attributions measured in hindsight while this
one isn’t?
- Line 118: With regards to one of your hypotheses: “We also
expected that pre-existing paranoia would exacerbate the
response to social threat, such that highly paranoid people
would show dysregulated responses to social threat.” – It is
unclear what ‘dysregulated’ means precisely here. More
generally intense? Perceptions being more decoupled from
actual intentions? If possible, could you clarify what
‘dysregulated’ responses would mean in the language of
your paradigm here?
Method
- I think there might be some unacknowledged Issues with
using the MacArthur ladder as a measure of social rank.
Specifically, as you acknowledge, the ladder captures social
rank but also relates to objective deprivation indices. Unless
I missed it, it doesn’t look like you control for any objective
SES measures in your study – which suggests to me that
you can’t necessarily rule out that you were capturing
variance due to poverty or any number of other objective
SES variables rather than ‘perceived social rank’ uniquely. I
don’t think this necessarily requires any changes to your
current paper other than to say that if you agree it poses a
possible limitation to your conclusions, it would be worth
saying so in the limitations section so that future studies can
correct for it (e.g. by measuring and controlling for objective
SES indictors in the same sample).
- Line 138: It is not clear to me what you mean when you write
that political affiliation has “strong symbolic value” – what
makes it is symbolic, and what is it symbolic of? I recognize
that this might seem pedantic, but it relates to a potential
problem I mention in the ‘discussion’ part below that it is not
obvious why exactly you chose to use political affiliation
rather than, say, ethnicity or some other proxy for ‘group
identity’ in this study.
- Line 153: Is there a typo in the line “In both tasks,
participants were case in the role of receiver in a Dictator
Game.”? Case = cast?
- I am wondering why the decision was made that the people
who didn’t understand the rules wouldn’t be simply removed
from analysis?
- Your description of Part C (data on decisions when the
participants took the role of dictator) is interesting. I am sure
you have already considered analysing these data
considering how fascinating it would be! Just a note that if
you are intending to report results from that part of the
experiment in a separate paper, it might be worth flagging
that here.
- I am wondering if you could please provide some more detail
in the manuscript text about precisely what information the
participants believed the dictators had about them when the
dictator was making their decisions. The answer to this
question is very important because with more information
about the receiver, the decisions of the dictators could be
more plausibly attributed to malicious intent (e.g. because
the dictator could see they were dealing with a lower social
status person, etc.). Specifically, did the participants (when
acting as the receiver) believe that the dictators knew their
social status or political identification? Apologies if you
provided this this information and I overlooked it.
This ties in to the issue about whether an attribution of harm
can fairly be called “paranoid”. Unless I am missing
something: If the participant on the receiving end believes
that the dictator has specific information about them
personally, and indeed there exists a bias towards ‘unfair’
dictator decisions towards outgroup members or people of
lower SES, then attributions of malicious intent by the
receiver can be conceptualised as accurate, and not really
‘paranoid’.
Presumably you could even check to see if such a decision-
bias does exist (given that you have the data about the
decisions made by your participants when they themselves
were playing the role of the dictator), and thus whether the
attributions of harm are actually “paranoid” or if attributions
are tracking genuine biases in the decision-making of the
dictators?
- Line 250: I can’t get the figshare link to work: “All data and
code are available at 10.6084/m9.figshare.5441524.” (but I
was able to access your data and script from the figshare
link provided at the end of the manuscript).
- Could you please ensure to cite the R studio team (if you
used R studio) as well as all of the R packages that you
used in-text in the ‘statistical approach’ section as well as in
the references list? E.g., I note that you use ggplot2 in your
analysis script, so a citation to Hadley Wickam would be
something like: “H. Wickham. ggplot2: Elegant Graphics for
Data Analysis. Springer-Verlag New York, 2009.” Here is a
blog about some mechanics to do this easily: https://www.r-
bloggers.com/citing-r-packages/
Discussion
- Line 341: “motives underpinning dictator decisions are
ambiguous and could feasibly reflect self-interest or, less
parsimoniously, malevolent intentions” – This doesn’t specify
that you are talking about “unfair” dictator decisions rather
than dictator decisions in general, which I presume you are,
otherwise the focus on malevolent intentions doesn’t make
sense, right?
Could you also please justify the claim that the more
parsimonious interpretation for any given receiver is that the
dictator decisions reflect self-interest – either here or in the
introduction. For instance, is there data asking people when
they are playing the ‘dictator’ role what their motivations for
fair and unfair decisions were? If the dictator has a lot of
information about the receiver, it seems like a parsimonious
inference that they may have malevolent intentions,
especially if that information tells them that they are playing
with an outgroup member (for example).
- Line starting 344: “Participants made stronger harmful intent
attributions when playing against a higher status dictator,
and when playing against an out-group dictator, compared to
when they played against equal or lower status dictators, or
against in-group dictators.” – perhaps need to add
“respectively” after this sentence?
- Line 355: your discussion of ethnic minority status findings
as the motivation for the current study raises the question:
why exactly did you use political affiliation as the
manipulation of group identification, rather than ethnicity, if
the hypothesis was derived from epidemiological findings
about ethnicity? Indeed, the abstract describes the logic as
follows “psychosis-risk is associated with low social rank and
minority status, but the causal effects of status and group
affiliation on paranoid thinking remain unclear” – but in the
paper you do not address ‘minority status’ at all, rather
‘outgroup’ status. You state that you used political affiliation
because it ‘tends to be polarizing’, but so too does ethnicity?
I think it would be worth expanding on the theoretical
justification for using political affiliation rather than ethnicity
here, but also in the introduction, where the rationale behind
the study is first introduced. If your overall aim is to make a
contribution to the study of why psychosis risk relates to low
social rank as well as minority status, then the link needs to
be made clearer between minority status (what you perhaps
want to make inferences about) and outgroup categorisation
(what you capture in this study).
- Typo in line 418? “that” instead of “than”
Thanks again for the opportunity to review your very interesting
paper. I hope my points have been constructive and clear to
understand, and I look forward to reading a revision!
Adam Bulley
The University of Queensland, Australia
Appendix B
To the editor
We would like to take this opportunity to thank both reviewers for providing
such detailed and thoughtful comments on our manuscript, which we believe
allowed us to make substantial improvements. We detail the point-by-point
responses to the reviewer comments below, noting any changes we made to
the manuscript in red.
We would also like to point out a small deviation in our analyses –
specifically the analysis presented in Table S2 (exploring variation in self-
interest attributions in the social status task). Upon re-checking all of our
analyses, we noticed that we have previously overlooked that there was a
significant interaction between dictator fairness and dictator low status on
participants’ attributions of self-interest: specifically, we find that lower status
unfair dictators receive lower self-interest attributions than unfair dictators
who are equal or higher status to the participant. Although this does not alter
the main conclusions of the manuscript, we have noted this result in the results
section of the manuscript.
Please see below for all other comments and we look forward to hearing from
you in due course.
Best wishes on behalf of all authors
Nichola Raihani
Responses to Reviewers
Reviewer 1
Comments for the authors:
This paper describes a fascinating, methodologically elegant, and
rigorous approach to understanding the causal influences of peer
social status and political affiliation on the attribution of harmful
intentions. It was mostly very compelling, but I have a number of
reservations that I describe in detail in the following. I would be happy
to recommend this paper for publication if these points are addressed
– they are all intended to make an incremental improvement to an
already strong manuscript. Apologies for my lengthy review – I really
liked the paper, which made it easy to read in a lot of detail! In
general, I think some of the theoretical grounding and conclusions
derived need to be unpacked somewhat. The main conceptual issue is
with regards to what exactly makes an inference ‘paranoid’. For
instance, I wonder if at times you are a bit quick to describe behaviour
as reflecting “paranoid attributions” rather than simply (and perhaps
more accurately) “attributions of harmful intent”. The former assumes
that attributions are erroneous, exaggerated, or out of proportion
(according to the definition you provide), which I do not think you can
necessarily ensure. I expand on this below in the specific sections
where it arises.
Thank you for a careful reading and positive assessment of our paper.
Introduction:
Line 55: The opening sentence of the introduction is a bit vague and is
not sufficiently explained in the rest of the paragraph. What exactly is
“social danger” - this seems like a central construct to define and
detail for the reader in the introduction somewhere, considering that it
has various definitions across disciplines.
Thank you for this. We have clarified this point as follows: “Social threat
detection mechanisms should be sensitive to the risk of harms that can be
imposed by conspecifics, including aggressive attacks, ostracism, social
exclusion, reputation damage and other forms of harm that have potential
negative consequences for reproductive success and / or survival.”
What would it mean to have mechanisms “appropriately” attuned to
social danger? Does “appropriately” mean accurately? A problem
arises from the fact that systematic biases in cognition often appear to
have evolved because they are useful, so the claim that threat detection
mechanisms should be appropriately attuned is a bit hard to parse.
We agree that there is a potential confusion over whether ‘appropriate’ should
mean ‘accurate’ (we agree that it need not). Please see revised wording above.
Your focus here is understandably on causal environmental reasons
for the variation in paranoia. However, I would suggest that it might
be worth qualifying with some mention of the genetic determinants. A
great deal of the individual difference variation in this trait (and in all
psychological traits) is probably the random result of genetic variation
in the heritable contributors.
Thank you for this point. Although our study is on the environmental
influences on paranoia we agree that acknowledging the genetic contribution
is important and we have now included this in the Introduction.
Line 65: “Paranoia is more common in people with low
socioeconomic status or who live in poverty” – This statement perhaps
falsely implies that low SES and poverty are two distinct constructs,
but of course they are greatly overlapping (with many perspectives
subsuming ‘poverty’ under the construct of SES – which is a combined
social and economic index). It might be worth disentangling this here.
Thank you for this point. We have now changed the wording as follows:
“Paranoia is more common in people with low socioeconomic status,
including those who live in poverty (Anderson & Freeman 2013).”
Line 66: “Social adversity also manifests in terms of discrimination
and exclusion, and people from minority ethnic backgrounds report
higher levels of paranoia”. I am a bit confused by this point. Your
definition of paranoia is “exaggerated fears of intentional harm”.
How do we know that people from minority ethnic backgrounds aren’t
simply accurately gauging intentional harm from others? – Indeed this
is implied by your claim that they face greater discrimination and
exclusion. However by using the term ‘paranoia’ as you define it at the
start, you are implying that the attributions of harm made by low SES
people/ those from minority backgrounds are not accurate. This issue
applies elsewhere in the manuscript, and in particular in the rest of
this paragraph. Unless I have missed the logic somewhere, perhaps
you should make sure that the definition of paranoia as ‘exaggerated’
or ‘out of proportion’ applies to all of the literature that you review in
the introduction – I would suspect that some of the uses are actually
measuring perceived social threat (perceptions that may indeed be
accurate).
Thank you for raising this point. The link between discrimination, exclusion
and paranoia in the studies we cite for this point is established by two
methods. Combs et al. (2006) and Rippy and Newman (2006) use the
Fengistein and Vanable (1992) paranoia scale which measures paranoid
ideation – that is, the extent to which people have thoughts involving paranoid
attributions (‘others want to cause me harm’) and does not directly measure
whether these attributions are accurate although we know from previous
experimental studies that higher levels correlate with tendency for
exaggerated perception of social harm (for example, see Freeman’s studies on
paranoid ideation in controlled virtual reality settings; Freeman et al., 2005;
2008).
The other studies we cite measure paranoia as a component of psychosis
(frank psychosis or in the ultra-high-risk state) for which the unlikely nature
of the belief is established as part of the assessment process. Here, someone
may be subject to genuine intentional harm from others and still have
exaggerated beliefs about harm because the delusion can focus on a different
subject to the genuine discrimination (‘the Royal Family are trying to steal my
thoughts to embarrass me’). Of course, there is the possibility of misdiagnosis,
but given what we know about the validity of these measures, we assume for
population studies that they are valid measure of the extent to which
exaggerated beliefs of harm can be associated with discrimination.
The best conclusion from this evidence base is that discrimination and
exclusion lead to higher levels of paranoia and these higher levels are likely
due to a combination of increased accurate attributions of harmful intent and
increased inaccurate attributions of harmful intent.
However, some of the confusion here is caused by differing use of
terminology in the literature. Paranoid attribution refers to an attribution of
harmful intent and does not imply inaccuracy but reflects theme – in the same
way that depressive attribution is used in the depression literature. Paranoid
ideation refers to thoughts that include paranoia attributions and, as noted
above, the extent to which the person has paranoid ideation is known to
correlate with exaggerated social threat perception. Paranoid delusion refers to
delusions with paranoid and persecutory themes. Paranoia refers to the whole
spectrum of paranoid cognition, from attributions to delusions. However, we
have now better clarified this in the Introduction.
Line 71: You write: “Increasing evidence also suggests that the
subjective perception of one’s relative status in the world is also an
important predictor of paranoia, above and beyond the objective
presence of environmental adversity.” (my emphasis). You then
proceed to provide examples of findings that show that low perceived
social rank predicts paranoid ideation and psychosis-proneness. As
far as I can tell, these example findings do not however demonstrate a
role for the subjective perception of status over and above objective
adversity. Couldn’t low perceived social rank be an accurate
assessment of actual adversity, thereby conflating the two constructs?
Thank you for this point. We have now changed the wording to more
accurately reflect the findings of these studies to: “Increasing evidence also
suggests that the subjective perception of one’s relative status in the world is
also an important predictor of paranoia.”
Line 86: In describing the results from Freeman et al. (2014), the
authors state that height is “a common marker for social rank”
without explaining this. Why is height a marker for social rank, and
what evidence supports this claim? Maybe citing some correlations
between height and social rank outcomes would help. I realise that you
are just using the Freeman study to make a more general point, but I
think the ‘marker’ of social rank is important – of course there may be
massive differences between how social rank is perceived on the basis
of height versus income (for example).
Thank you for this. This was based on empirical findings which we now cite
directly in the manuscript and have included a reference to Stulp, G., Buunk,
A. P., Verhulst, S., & Pollet, T. V. (2015). Human Height Is Positively
Related to Interpersonal Dominance in Dyadic Interactions. PLoS ONE, 10(2),
e0117860. http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0117860.
Line 106: when discussing the dictator game, you write: “This
paradigm allows a measure of the tendency to infer harmful intent as
an ‘online’ or ‘live’ attribution.” – what exactly does ‘online’ and
‘live’ mean in this context? “Live” is used in a few places in the
manuscript to describe attributions, so I think it would be worth
defining it if it means something important or specific. If it means
something like ‘attributions that take place in real time in response to
immediate behaviours of peers’, what is this in opposition to? - e.g. are
most attributions measured in hindsight while this one isn’t?
Thank you for these points of clarification. We changed the wording at line
106 as follows: “Although experimentally innovative, both studies used
simulated social situations, potentially limiting their ability to engage the most
relevant social cognitive processes that help us manage competition and
cooperation with others in genuine social interactions
Line 131: we changed the wording as follows: “This paradigm allows a
measure of the tendency to infer harmful intent at a specified moment during a
social interaction in which the participant is directly involved.”
Line 118: With regards to one of your hypotheses: “We also expected
that pre-existing paranoia would exacerbate the response to social
threat, such that highly paranoid people would show dysregulated
responses to social threat.” – It is unclear what ‘dysregulated’ means
precisely here. More generally intense? Perceptions being more
decoupled from actual intentions? If possible, could you clarify what
‘dysregulated’ responses would mean in the language of your
paradigm here?
Thank you for this. We have now included the following clarification: “In
other words, we anticipated we would detect an interaction between paranoia
and experimental social threat in the strength of harmful intent attributions.”
Method
- I think there might be some unacknowledged Issues with using the
MacArthur ladder as a measure of social rank. Specifically, as you
acknowledge, the ladder captures social rank but also relates to
objective deprivation indices. Unless I missed it, it doesn’t look like
you control for any objective SES measures in your study – which
suggests to me that you can’t necessarily rule out that you were
capturing variance due to poverty or any number of other objective
SES variables rather than ‘perceived social rank’ uniquely. I don’t
think this necessarily requires any changes to your current paper other
than to say that if you agree it poses a possible limitation to your
conclusions, it would be worth saying so in the limitations section so
that future studies can correct for it (e.g. by measuring and controlling
for objective SES indictors in the same sample).
Thank you for this important point. We agree that the MacArthur ladder might
also capture objective SES measures, but we do not feel this alters the
conclusions of our study or necessarily represents a limitation (rather, it would
be surprising / concerning if the SSS scores from MacArthur ladder had no
bearing on objective SES measures).
Line 138: It is not clear to me what you mean when you write that
political affiliation has “strong symbolic value” – what makes it is
symbolic, and what is it symbolic of? I recognize that this might seem
pedantic, but it relates to a potential problem I mention in the
‘discussion’ part below that it is not obvious why exactly you chose to
use political affiliation rather than, say, ethnicity or some other proxy
for ‘group identity’ in this study.
Thanks of for this useful point of clarification. We changed the wording as
follows: “is a particularly salient type of group affiliation and is associated
with differences in identity, social norms and values.” The reason for
choosing political affiliation was pragmatic. As we note in the manuscript,
previous evidence shows it predicts divergent in and out-group preferences
and inter-group behaviours in experimental studies, and we assumed it would
be more acceptable to ask and compare across this dimension than ethnicity
meaning we would have fewer drop outs.
Line 153: Is there a typo in the line “In both tasks, participants were
case in the role of receiver in a Dictator Game.”? Case = cast?
Thank you for catching this. We have now corrected this error.
I am wondering why the decision was made that the people who didn’t
understand the rules wouldn’t be simply removed from analysis?
This is an important point which we appreciated you raising. We decided not
to do this because it introduces a potential selection bias. However, for models
where we detect an effect of failed comprehension on the results, we do
routinely check the robustness of the results when failed comprehenders are
excluded and we also report qualitative differences.
Your description of Part C (data on decisions when the participants
took the role of dictator) is interesting. I am sure you have already
considered analysing these data considering how fascinating it would
be! Just a note that if you are intending to report results from that part
of the experiment in a separate paper, it might be worth flagging that
here.
Thank you for this and we agree the questions this data raises are interesting
and have published a study on this for this reason (Raihani & Bell 2017,
Psych Med). However, we won’t be analysing this new data from the current
study since the order in which the data were collected was not counter-
balanced. In other words, dictator decisions were always obtained after the
receiver data (the data of interest for this manuscript). The main reason we
collected the dictator decisions in this study was to ensure that participants
were responding to a real decision made by another participant.
I am wondering if you could please provide some more detail in the
manuscript text about precisely what information the participants
believed the dictators had about them when the dictator was making
their decisions. The answer to this question is very important because
with more information about the receiver, the decisions of the
dictators could be more plausibly attributed to malicious intent (e.g.
because the dictator could see they were dealing with a lower social
status person, etc.). Specifically, did the participants (when acting as
the receiver) believe that the dictators knew their social status or
political identification? Apologies if you provided this this information
and I overlooked it.
Many thanks for this perceptive point. We really appreciate this because you
have noted a slight deviation in our methods across the two experiments
which we were hitherto unaware of. For the political affiliation task, the
participants were explicitly told that the other person was “informed about
your political views before making their decision” whereas for the social
status task, this explicit statement was not included. Rather for the social
status task, participants saw a message along the lines of “your partner rated
themselves as being below you on this task”. We have now amended a
sentence in the methods as follows: “where they were informed that the
dictator had either the same or different political affiliation to them (hereafter
in-group and out-group condition), and that the dictator was aware of this.”
This ties in to the issue about whether an attribution of harm can fairly
be called “paranoid”. Unless I am missing something: If the
participant on the receiving end believes that the dictator has specific
information about them personally, and indeed there exists a bias
towards ‘unfair’ dictator decisions towards outgroup members or
people of lower SES, then attributions of malicious intent by the
receiver can be conceptualised as accurate, and not really ‘paranoid’.
Thanks for this. Please see our earlier response that addresses the issue of the
extent of accuracy in the spectrum of paranoia. We show that experimental
social threat (e.g. interacting with an out-group, or someone higher status)
increases the tendency to make paranoid attributions about those individuals –
this does not necessarily mean that the attributions are inaccurate.
Presumably you could even check to see if such a decision-bias does
exist (given that you have the data about the decisions made by your
participants when they themselves were playing the role of the
dictator), and thus whether the attributions of harm are actually
“paranoid” or if attributions are tracking genuine biases in the
decision-making of the dictators?
We agree this would be interesting. However, we note the issue of counter-
balancing mentioned earlier. Nevertheless, one of the reasons for releasing the
dataset as open data is to allow other researchers to test exactly these ideas if
they so wish, but we are keen to stick to our pre-registered hypothesis for this
manuscript.
Line 250: I can’t get the figshare link to work: “All data and code are
available at 10.6084/m9.figshare.5441524.” (but I was able to access
your data and script from the figshare link provided at the end of the
manuscript).
Thank you for noticing this important error – we now link to the OSF
repository in the final manuscript version.
Could you please ensure to cite the R studio team (if you used R
studio) as well as all of the R packages that you used in-text in the
‘statistical approach’ section as well as in the references list? E.g., I
note that you use ggplot2 in your analysis script, so a citation to
Hadley Wickam would be something like: “H. Wickham. ggplot2:
Elegant Graphics for Data Analysis. Springer-Verlag New York,
2009.” Here is a blog about some mechanics to do this easily:
https://www.r-bloggers.com/citing-r-packages/
Thank you for this point. We did not use RStudio for this analysis although it
is worth noting that RStudio is a development environment which acts as a
shell for R and so has no material effect on the execution of the analysis.
Given these points, we have opted not to reference RStudio. ggplot2 was not
used in the final analysis script and the fact that the script loads the ggplot2
library is a legacy from a previous development version of the script. We have
now deleted this line from the analysis script.
However, the Reviewer has raised the important point of correcting citing the
packages we did use to provide credit to the authors. We returned to the code
and noticed that a citation to the MuMIn package was missing and we have
now included this. Thank you for raising this.
Discussion
- Line 341: “motives underpinning dictator decisions are ambiguous
and could feasibly reflect self-interest or, less parsimoniously,
malevolent intentions” – This doesn’t specify that you are talking
about “unfair” dictator decisions rather than dictator decisions in
general, which I presume you are, otherwise the focus on malevolent
intentions doesn’t make sense, right?
You are right that it seems counter-intuitive to attribute harmful intentions to
someone who sent you half of the endowment – but we actually do have
people in our dataset who do make harmful intent attributions even to fair
dictators. This tendency is also associated with increased paranoia.
Could you also please justify the claim that the more parsimonious
interpretation for any given receiver is that the dictator decisions
reflect self-interest – either here or in the introduction. For instance, is
there data asking people when they are playing the ‘dictator’ role
what their motivations for fair and unfair decisions were? If the
dictator has a lot of information about the receiver, it seems like a
parsimonious inference that they may have malevolent intentions,
especially if that information tells them that they are playing with an
outgroup member (for example).
Thank you for this point. We have now clarified this by changing the sentence
to include the word ‘unfair’.
Line starting 344: “Participants made stronger harmful intent
attributions when playing against a higher status dictator, and when
playing against an out-group dictator, compared to when they played
against equal or lower status dictators, or against in-group dictators.”
– perhaps need to add “respectively” after this sentence?
Thank for you this helpful clarification. We have now added this to the text.
Line 355: your discussion of ethnic minority status findings as the
motivation for the current study raises the question: why exactly did
you use political affiliation as the manipulation of group identification,
rather than ethnicity, if the hypothesis was derived from
epidemiological findings about ethnicity? Indeed, the abstract
describes the logic as follows “psychosis-risk is associated with low
social rank and minority status, but the causal effects of status and
group affiliation on paranoid thinking remain unclear” – but in the
paper you do not address ‘minority status’ at all, rather ‘outgroup’
status. You state that you used political affiliation because it ‘tends to
be polarizing’, but so too does ethnicity? I think it would be worth
expanding on the theoretical justification for using political affiliation
rather than ethnicity here, but also in the introduction, where the
rationale behind the study is first introduced. If your overall aim is to
make a contribution to the study of why psychosis risk relates to low
social rank as well as minority status, then the link needs to be made
clearer between minority status (what you perhaps want to make
inferences about) and outgroup categorisation (what you capture in
this study).
Many thanks for this point. We have noted why we pragmatically chose
political affiliation in an earlier response and have now included this in the
Introduction. However, it is worth noting that theories of increased rates of
paranoia related to ethnicity specifically relate to in-group and out-group
status (rather than ethnicity per se) which is why we feel it is relevant to make
this connection. Clearly, extending this work by specifically looking at
ethnicity would be a sensible next step for empirical work.
Typo in line 418? “that” instead of “than”
Many thanks for this. Now corrected.
Thanks again for the opportunity to review your very interesting paper.
I hope my points have been constructive and clear to understand, and I
look forward to reading a revision!
A pleasure and we’d just like to express our appreciation for a careful,
constructive and considered review of our work for which we feel it is now
much improved.
Reviewer 2
In the present work, the authors investigate the relationship between
paranoia and attributions of harmful intent to others. They use a 2
stage paradigm, in which participants first complete relevant
questionnaires (including one assessing paranoia, SES and political
affiliation) and then 10 days later participate in dictator game (DG) in
one of 2 variants: Either varying the SES of the Dictator (higher,
lower or equal to the participant’s SES) or varying the political
affiliation of the Dictator (different or same political stance). They
assess attributions of harmful intent and selfishness to the Dictator.
The authors find that paranoia leads to greater attributions of harmful
intent overall, and that those in the out-group conditions (Dictator was
of different party or higher SES) attributed more harmful intent, but do
not find a predicted interaction between these variables.
Overall I have no major issues with the paper. It is concise, lays out
(pre-registered) predictions clearly and tests them in a reasonable
way. Despite finding an influence of the manipulations in both tasks on
relevant variables (attributions of self-interest), no interaction with
paranoia and out-group status or higher-social status was found.
Many thanks for these positive comments.
First, the authors might consider a power-analysis – if the authors
want to claim that they truly do not find an interaction between
paranoia and the manipulations in their two DGs, then a power
analysis (or a Bayes factor analysis) would provide some sense of how
strongly we should believe this null result.
We would like to comply with this suggestion but we do not know how to run
a power analysis for a cumulative link model to detect an interaction effect.
As a next best step, I simulated data under the alternative hypothesis (i.e. that
there is an interaction between a continuous and a binary categorical variable)
for a logistic regression (which should be less powerful method to detect
effects than a cumulative link model, Taylor et al. 2006). I used this simulated
data to test the probability that we would reject the null hypothesis with a
sample size of 1,242 (the smaller of the two sample sizes reported in the text).
The output of this simulation is presented below – it indicates that the
probability of rejecting the null hypothesis would be very high indeed. I also
double checked this assuming a linear model, where I ran a simulation to
check the power to detect an interaction of size 0.3 – again the power was
estimated to be 1. Reducing the size of the interaction to 0.1 yields a power of
0.934 for a N of 1200. This suggests that our study should be adequately
powered to detect a null effect.
Exact binomial test
data: sum(pow1) and 1242, number of successes = 1242,
number of trials = 1242, p-value < 2.2e-16
alternative true probability of success is not equal to 0.5
hypothesis:
95% CI: 0.9970343 – 1.0000000
sample estimates: probability of success 1
Second, the authors note that they found an unexpected U-shape
relationship between SES and paranoia (line 262). Given this, I’d
recommend that the authors re-run their analyses excluding those
individuals. It is possible that those who believe they are on the
highest rungs of society (and are highly paranoid) and yet are doing
studies on MTurk are either incorrect or are lying. Even if I’m
incorrect about this, there is clearly something different about these
individuals. At least by my initial analyses of their data, excluding
these subjects does not change the authors’ results, and so including
this analysis (potentially just in the supplemental data) would give
greater confidence that the authors’ null results are not due to the
strange pattern they observe with this small number of subjects.
We re-ran the analysis removing the 23 individuals who reported being on
rung 9 or 10 of the social ladder. This left us with an n of 1219 rather than
1242. The results are remarkably similar to those published in Table 1 of the
manuscript. The parameter estimates associated with the predictor variables,
and the confidence intervals, are posted below for comparison. The parameter
estimate for Higher Status (meaning that the dictator was higher status than
the participant) in this model was 0.37 (CI: 0.10, 0.64) and in the model
reported in the text was 0.35 (0.08, 0.63). The parameter estimate for paranoia
in this model is 0.43 (0.19, 0.67) and in the main text is 0.42 (0.18, 0.66). We
do not present this analysis in the SI because it was not a pre-registered
analysis and we do not feel we have a strong justification for excluding these
participants, but we are happy to include this analysis if advised to do so.
Model-averaged coefficients (full average)
Estimate Std. Error Pr(>|z|)
1|2 0.84181 0.06688 < 2e-16 ***
2|3 1.59476 0.07937 < 2e-16 ***
3|4 2.2235 0.09622 < 2e-16 ***
4|5 2.77609 0.11683 < 2e-16 ***
Fairness. -1.2316 0.13065 < 2e-16 ***
Gender -0.2668 0.12966 0.039799 *
HigherStatus 0.36769 0.13784 0.007699 **
FailComp 1.59407 0.26266 < 2e-16 ***
Paranoia 0.4307 0.12331 0.000484 ***
SSS 0.11214 0.13498 0.40633
Fair*HigherStatus -0.108 0.217204 0.61919
HigherStatus*Paranoia -0.08792 0.18939 0.64267
LowerStatus 0.01543 0.07014 0.82599
Age 0.00433 0.03668 0.90607
Model-averaged confidence intervals
2.50% 97.50%
1|2 0.710604 0.973025
2|3 1.439041 1.750477
3|4 2.034718 2.412286
4|5 2.546867 3.005305
Fairness -1.48788 -0.97524
Gender -0.52121 -0.01244
HigherStatus 0.097271 0.638105
FailComp 1.078751 2.109379
Paranoia 0.188787 0.672616
SSS -0.15254 0.376815
Fair*HigherStatus -0.53394 0.317928
HigherStatus*Paranoia -0.45932 0.283482
LowerStatus -0.12213 0.152988
Age -0.06762 0.076288
Third, for the social status variant of the task (line 157), what was
done with participants who responded 1 or 10? For these participants,
they could not be assigned to the lower or higher conditions
(respectively). Given the 10 day delay, we might expect that these
participants forgot their particular response and so there is no issue.
However, given that SES is a stable characteristic, it is possible that
those at the extreme ends of the SES range know that they are at the
extreme ends of the range and thus would be skeptical of this
manipulation. If the authors remove these subjects, do the same results
hold?
Thank you for this point. We ran this analysis, which was based on 1228
participants rather than the total n of 1242. The model averaged coefficients
are presented below – the model is almost identical to that which is presented
in the main text.
Model-averaged coefficients (full average)
Estimate Std. Error Pr(>|z|)
1|2 0.83749 0.06657 <2.00E-16***
2|3 1.583262 0.078818 <2.00E-16***
3|4 2.217093 0.095633 <2.00E-16***
4|5 2.773158 0.116233 <2.00E-16***
Fairness -1.23773 0.129841 <2.00E-16***
Male -0.27169 0.128994 0.035365
HiStatus 0.341947 0.135832 0.011903
Comprehension 1.608477 0.259782 <2.00E-16***
Paranoia 0.42643 0.122058 0.000483
Fair*HiStatus -0.13033 0.234647 0.578786
SSS 0.03206 0.083403 0.700831
HiStatus*Paranoia -0.05073 0.14967 0.734813
LoStatus 0.008782 0.054887 0.872972
Age 0.004962 0.040857 0.903425
Fourth, where was the conversion of the paranoia score (line 203)
mentioned in the pre-registration? There is a section in both pre-
registrations where the authors mention that variables will be
“standardized” but transforming a count to an ordinal variable is not
the same thing. Perhaps I missed where this transformation is
mentioned. But if not, that language should be changed and it may be
worth mentioning whether the analyses are the same with and without
this transformation.
Many thanks for spotting this. We realised that we did not explicitly mention
that we would convert paranoia to an ordinal categorical response term for the
set of analyses that explored the variables that predict variation in paranoia,
though we did note that we would use a cumulative link model for this
analysis which – by definition – implies that we will be converting paranoia to
an ordinal categorical variable. We included a sentence as follows: “We note
that we omitted to explicitly mention this transformation in the AsPredicted
documents but we did state that we would explore the variables affecting
variation in paranoia score using a cumulative link model, which by definition
implies an ordinal categorical response term.”
Additional very minor notes:
- Typo – line 153: “… participants were case …”
Thank you for noticing this. Now corrected in the text.
Line 250: The figshare link in the article
(10.6084/m9.figshare.5441524) did not work, though the one at the
end of the article did
Thank you – we have updated the link to be to the OSF repository.
Line 261: The overall relationship between paranoia and social status
should be reported.
Thank you for this. We have now included this in the manuscript.
It wasn’t clear why Table 2 is in italics when Table 1 is not.
Table 2 is not in italics in our version, however, we will check the manuscript
and for these formatting errors throughout and closely check the generated
PDF which is where we think the error might have arisen.
I could not actually run the authors’ code out of the box (e.g. code
calls for file “ParanoiaData.csv” when “ParanoiaData.xslx” was
included in the online repository). They should ensure that whatever
they put in an online repository is useable by other researchers.
Thank you for noticing this. This was an error on our part. The file was indeed
a csv file but was given the wrong extension. We have now corrected this.
We would like to thank the Editor and both Reviewers for their careful
analysis of our work. We believe the manuscript is now considerably
improved as a result your efforts although we would be happy to hear any
further comments that arise.
Appendix C
Review: Experimentally-Induced Social Threat Increases
Paranoid Thinking
Comments for the authors:
Thank you for your comprehensive revision in response to my
earlier comments. Glad you found the suggestions helpful! I
recommend that the paper is essentially ready for publication
pending a couple of minor final points:
1. Would you mind making it a bit more explicit in the
manuscript method section what exact information the
participants thought the dictator had about them when they
were making their decision, as per your response to my
earlier query on this point. Specifically, could you please
point out that in the social status task it was ambiguous to
the participants whether the dictator knew what their social
status was (in contrast to the political task). I think this is
important because some participants may have inferred that
the dictator was told about their relative social status, while
some may have inferred that the dictator was not told about
their relative social status. This means that the manipulation
may not have been identical (indeed, may have varied quite
significantly) between participants depending on their
interpretation of the task structure. Consider that if I believe
the dictator knows I am of lower status then I can more
plausibly attribute the dictator intentions to malicious intent
(“the dictator knows I am lower social status and they are
therefore treating me badly because of that”).
2. RE the sentence: “This task can identify paranoid attributions
because the motives underpinning dictator decisions are
ambiguous and could feasibly reflect self-interest or, less
parsimoniously, malevolent intentions.”
In my earlier comment, I said the following about this: “Could
you also please justify the claim that the more parsimonious
interpretation for any given receiver is that the dictator
decisions reflect self-interest – either here or in the
introduction. For instance, is there data asking people when
they are playing the ‘dictator’ role what their motivations for
fair and unfair decisions were? If the dictator has a lot of
information about the receiver, it seems like a parsimonious
inference that they may have malevolent intentions,
especially if that information tells them that they are playing
with an outgroup member (for example).”
Your response was to change the wording to include the
word “unfair” to qualify the dictator decisions, but this doesn’t
quite get to the heart of the point I was making. Maybe I can
try and clarify, and you could explain where I have
misunderstood if I have done so?:
My question pertains to why, exactly, we are sure that it is
less parsimonious for participants to infer malevolent
intentions from the dictator. If a dictator makes an ‘unfair’
decision, then this could plausibly be a reflection of either
self-interest OR malevolent intentions (indeed your paradigm
relies on this ambiguity). Is there good evidence that, in
general, dictators are motivated by self-interest and thus that
it is indeed less parsimonious for the receiver to attribute
malevolence? I hope this clarifies!
Again – I would like to thank you for the well-considered
revision. I think this paper will make a great contribution to the
literature.
Best wishes,
Adam Bulley
The University of Queensland, Australia.
Appendix D
To the editor
Thank you once again to you and to Reviewer 1 for re-assessing our
manuscript and for the favourable decision. We have responded to both the
reviewer’s comments below as described.
We would also like to note that we have modified Figures 4 and 5 in the
manuscript from simple barplots to be boxplots with the raw data overlaid on
top (produced with ggplot2, which we cite appropriately). We believe this is
better because it more transparently and informatively displays the data in the
summary plots.
Best wishes on behalf of all authors
Nichola Raihani
Responses to Reviewers
Reviewer 1
Comments for the authors:
Would you mind making it a bit more explicit in the manuscript method
section what exact information the participants thought the dictator had
about them when they were making their decision, as per your response
to
my earlier query on this point. Specifically, could you please point out
that
in the social status task it was ambiguous to the participants whether the
dictator knew what their social status was (in contrast to the political
task).
I think this is important because some participants may have inferred that
the dictator was told about their relative social status, while some may
have inferred that the dictator was not told about their relative social
status. This means that the manipulation may not have been identical
(indeed, may have varied quite significantly) between participants
depending on their interpretation of the task structure. Consider that if I
believe the dictator knows I am of lower status then I can more plausibly
attribute the dictator intentions to malicious intent (“the dictator knows I
am
lower social status and they are therefore treating me badly because of
that”).
Thanks for noting this – we have fully clarified this as follows:
Line 160: “We note here a slight discrepancy in the methods across
these two tasks in that the participants were explicitly told that their
partner knew the political affiliation of both players in the political
affiliation task, whereas (due to an oversight) this explicit information
was not provided in the social status task (in the latter, participants
knew that status of the partner but were not explicitly told that the
partner also knew the participant’s own status). In both tasks, once
participants received the information about their partners, the
Dictator Game proceeded.
RE the sentence: “This task can identify paranoid attributions because
the
motives underpinning dictator decisions are ambiguous and could
feasibly
reflect self-interest or, less parsimoniously, malevolent intentions.”
In my earlier comment, I said the following about this: “Could you also
please justify the claim that the more parsimonious interpretation for any
given receiver is that the dictator decisions reflect self-interest – either
here or in the introduction. For instance, is there data asking people
when
they are playing the ‘dictator’ role what their motivations for fair and
unfair
decisions were? If the dictator has a lot of information about the receiver,
it
seems like a parsimonious inference that they may have malevolent
intentions, especially if that information tells them that they are playing
with
an outgroup member (for example).”
Your response was to change the wording to include the word “unfair” to
qualify the dictator decisions, but this doesn’t quite get to the heart of the
point I was making. Maybe I can try and clarify, and you could explain
where I have misunderstood if I have done so?:
My question pertains to why, exactly, we are sure that it is less
parsimonious for participants to infer malevolent intentions from the
dictator. If a dictator makes an ‘unfair’ decision, then this could plausibly
be a reflection of either self-interest OR malevolent intentions (indeed
your
paradigm relies on this ambiguity). Is there good evidence that, in
general,
dictators are motivated by self-interest and thus that it is indeed less
parsimonious for the receiver to attribute malevolence? I hope this
clarifies!
Thank you for raising this point. We see your point that unless we have the
actual data on the dictator’s motives (which we do not) we cannot make a
strong claim about whether attributions of self-interest are in fact more
parsimonious than attributions of harmful intent when faced with an unfair
partner in this setting. Nevertheless, we do routinely observe that people are
more likely to attribute self-interest than harmful intent to dictators (e.g. in the
current study and also in Raihani & Bell 2017) and this was the basis on
which was made the ‘more parsimonious’ claim. It is of course possible that
most people might be mistaken when judging the intentions of the partner in
this game – without the data on the actual motives of the dictator this is
impossible to judge. To avoid the impression that we are making a factual
claim about the intentions of the dictators, we have revised the sentence as
follows:
Line 351: could feasibly reflect self-interest or (arguably less
parsimoniously) malevolent intentions.
We hope that these amendments will prove satisfactory – but please do not
hesitate to contact us if you would like us to make any further amendments to
the paper.
Best wishes on behalf of all authors
Nichola Raihani
Society Open
