Nitrogen deposition and multi-dimensional plant diversity at
the landscape scale
Tobias Roth, Lukas Kohli, Beat Rihm, Valentin Amrhein and Beat Achermann
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150017.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150017
Review timeline
Original submission: 26 May 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 13 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 11 January 2015 appears in chronological order.
3rd revised submission: 4 March 2015
Final acceptance: 6 March 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140040.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not very clear. It sounds like they obtained the data from another source but they should
provide information on how to contact the source and identify the particular data that was used.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The objective of the work outlined in this manuscript is to evaluate whether an increase in N
availability affects various aspects of plant diversity at large spatial scales. This is a very
important objective to achieve because N enrichment is thought to be one of the biggest threats to
plant biodiversity but this premise is based primarily on the results from small scale experiments.
Consequently, I think work that attempts to evaluate how well small scale results translate to
larger spatial scales is very important. In general, I thought the manuscript was well written but
my biggest problem with the manuscript was understanding what the authors really did to
quantify how much N enrichment reduced biodiversity relative to that which would be expected
had N enrichment not occurred. The description in the methods (lines 80-83) were too vague. I
understand what they were trying to achieve (basically create a “control” for no nitrogen
addition) but I do not understand how this can be done. The authors may have a good way to do
this but I cannot evaluate it and this is an important part of the paper.
I think the basic regressions they performed were very informative and demonstrates that
various aspects of plant diversity varies with N availability but they need to do more explaining
so that readers can really accept the amount of diversity loss that has occurred.
What about Beta diversity? The paper by Chalcraft et al. emphasizes that N enrichment affects
diversity differently at large spatial scales than at small spatial scales because it alters spatial
variation in species composition. Your results suggest that beta diversity would be lower but
they do not present data or discuss this issue.
Details:
Lines 35-37: The Chalcraft et al. study indicates that small scale studies can often overestimate or
underestimate diversity loss at larger scales depending on background productivity levels. They
do not indicate that small scale studies generally overestimate diversity loss at large spatial
scales.
Lines 47-51: I am not clear what a “plot” is. Was a plot 5m wide (2.5 m on either side of a road)
by 2.5 km long? Is it really possible to identify all plants within 381 plots of this size? Were there
subsamples taken? Was it just presence/absence data that were recorded?
Lines 57-60. How was community uniqueness determined? There are multiple pairwise
comparisons among plots that would result in multiple estimates of community uniqueness for
an individual plot. Did you average community uniqueness values for all plots? I also don’t
think the interpretation of the uniqueness scores are correct. If they are dissimilarity scores,
values close to 1 indicate that plots contain very different sets of species but does not make
reference to anything about rare or common species.
Table 1 should be table 2 and table 2 should be table 1 to match the order in which the table
references occur in the manuscript.
The discussion was a little light given the importance of the subject.
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No supporting data presented
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This manuscript attempts to assess the impact of nitrogen deposition on multiple indices of plant
diversity, including functional and phylogenetic diversity alongside a few other traditional
diversity indices using a large observational dataset from Switzerland. While it is known that N
deposition can lead to plant species loss the impact on functional or phylogenetic diversity has
been little explored, hence there is also an element of novelty in this manuscript. However, while
I find the premises of the study very interesting, I cannot recommend it for publication in its
present form, mainly because the methodology is poorly explained.
While I appreciate short and concise studies, the authors are way too succinct in the presentation
of methodology to be able to judge the soundness of the data analyses. First of all, the choice of
standardising the parameter estimates by deriving model predictions from a model that is not
clearly explained (page 4 lines 80-85). Zr-scores are likely a more direct method of standardising
the effect sizes. Secondly, the authors present full statistical models, with numerous covariates,
but no attempt for model simplification (i.e. elimination of non-relevant variables) based on a
criterion of model fit such as AIC has been tried. The effect of the altitude becomes an important
part of the discussion and results but has not been put in context in the introduction. A few more
details on how the phylogenetic diversity was derived would also be welcome.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140040)
19-Jun-2014
Dear Dr Roth
"Nitrogen deposition and multi-dimensional plant diversity at the landscape scale" which you
submitted to Royal Society Open Science has now been reviewed. The comments from reviewers
are included at the bottom of this letter.
In view of the criticisms of the reviewers, the manuscript has been rejected in its current form.
However we encourage a new manuscript to be submitted which takes into consideration these
comments.
You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of your
manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload the files via your author centre.
Once you have revised your manuscript, go to http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and login
to your Author Center. Click on "Manuscripts with Decisions," and then click on "Create a
Resubmission" located next to the manuscript number. Then, follow the steps for resubmitting
your manuscript.
Your resubmitted manuscript should be submitted within 6 months. If you are unable to submit
by this date please contact the Editorial Office.
I look forward to a resubmission.
Sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140040)
Please see Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140302.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
5
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I think they have sufficiently described how one could obtain the data.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I found the manuscript to be much improved over the prior version. The primary concern that I
currently have, however, is whether the predicted diversity loss from N enrichment in any given
plot is accurate. From my understanding, the authors developed a model that correlated current
levels of N deposition in a plot with the number of plant species currently present in the plot and
then used that model to 1) predict the number of plant species in a plot on the basis of how much
N deposition is currently occurring in the plot and 2) predict the number of plant species in a plot
by assuming that each plot had the same background rate of N deposition. The metric of
diversity loss effectively looks at the difference between these two predicted values. My
problem with this is that the authors recognize that there is currently variation in N deposition
levels among plots but assume that all plots were historically homogeneous in the amounts of N
deposition. This does not seem to be a reasonable assumption. If the assumption is false, this
approach would overestimate diversity loss if historical levels of N deposition for a particular
plot was higher than assumed and would underestimate diversity loss if historical levels of N
deposition for a particular plot was lower than assumed. Furthermore, this approach would
imply that all plots should have had the same level of diversity in the past given that they were
assumed to have the same N load. Either data on the historical composition and nutrient loads of
plots are required to estimate diversity loss or the authors need to make a more convincing
argument as to why their approach is appropriate.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140302)
Dear Charlotte Wray
Thanks a lot for your email from 22 October 2014 concerning our Manuscript "Nitrogen
deposition and multi-dimensional plant diversity at the landscape scale" (ID RSOS-140302). We
carefully studied the valuable arguments of the referee and incorporated a further analysis on the
points raised by the referee in our manuscript (see below). In view of the additional results, we
still believe that our approach is suitable to answer our hypothesis and therefore decided to
resubmit a revised version of our manuscript.
Sincerely,
Tobias Roth
---------------------------------------------------------------
Reviewer 2: I found the manuscript to be much improved over the prior version. The primary
concern that I currently have, however, is whether the predicted diversity loss from N
enrichment in any given plot is accurate. From my understanding, the authors developed a
model that correlated current levels of N deposition in a plot with the number of plant species
currently present in the plot and then used that model to 1) predict the number of plant species in
6
a plot on the basis of how much N deposition is currently occurring in the plot and 2) predict the
number of plant species in a plot by assuming that each plot had the same background rate of N
deposition. The metric of diversity loss effectively looks at the difference between these two
predicted values. My problem with this is that the authors recognize that there is currently
variation in N deposition levels among plots but assume that all plots were historically
homogeneous in the amounts of N deposition. This does not seem to be a reasonable assumption.
If the assumption is false, this approach would overestimate diversity loss if historical levels of N
deposition for a particular plot was higher than assumed and would underestimate diversity loss
if historical levels of N deposition for a particular plot was lower than assumed. Furthermore,
this approach would imply that all plots should have had the same level of diversity in the past
given that they were assumed to have the same N load. Either data on the historical composition
and nutrient loads of plots are required to estimate diversity loss or the authors need to make a
more convincing argument as to why their approach is appropriate. Response: We thank the
referee for making this important point. In response to this comment, we additionally
investigated historic and spatially inhomogeneous N deposition rates for the year 1880 and
estimated effect sizes based on this second scenario. We added the new analyses to the MS, and
since the results based on the new scenario were not qualitatively different from to the first
scenario assuming a homogeneous N deposition without human influence, we believe that our
results are sufficiently robust with regard to our assumptions on historic N deposition.
label_version_3
RSOS-150017.R2 (Revision)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The objective of the work outlined in this manuscript is to evaluate whether an increase in N
availability affects various aspects of plant diversity at large spatial scales. As stated in my initial
review of this manuscript, this is a very important objective because N enrichment is thought to
be one of the biggest threats to plant biodiversity but this premise is based primarily on the
7
results from small scale experiments. Consequently, I think work that attempts to evaluate how
well small scale results translate to larger spatial scales is very important. My prior concern
pertained to assumptions the authors made about historic rates of N deposition. The authors
have come up with a very good and novel approach to address the concern I had about historic
rates of N deposition and so I no longer view this an issue with the manuscript.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150017)
29-Jan-2015
Dear Dr Roth
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150017 entitled
"Nitrogen deposition and multi-dimensional plant diversity at the landscape scale" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, therefore I invite you to
carefully proofread your article and ensure that all the below editorial requests are dealt with
where appropriate.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
8
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 07-Feb-2015). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Thanks a lot for your comments and suggestions on our earlier submission (ID RSOS-
140040). We carefully studied all the points and revised our manuscript according to these
comments. Below you will find a point-by-point reply to the comments.
Sincerely,
Tobias Roth
---------------------------------------------------------------
Reviewer: 1
This manuscript attempts to assess the impact of nitrogen deposition on multiple indices of
plant diversity, including functional and phylogenetic diversity alongside a few other
raditional diversity indices using a large observational dataset from Switzerland. While it is
known that N deposition can lead to plant species loss the impact on functional or
phylogenetic diversity has been little explored, hence there is also an element of novelty in
his manuscript. However, while I find the premises of the study very interesting, I cannot
recommend it for publication in its present form, mainly because the methodology is poorly
explained.
We agree and improved the description of the methods.
While I appreciate short and concise studies, the authors are way too succinct in the
presentation of methodology to be able to judge the soundness of the data analyses. First of
all, the choice of standardising the parameter estimates by deriving model predictions from a
model that is not clearly explained (page 4 lines 80-85). Zr-scores are likely a more direct
method of standardising the effect sizes.
We agree that Z-scores would also allow for a comparison of the effect sizes of N deposition
on the different plant diversity measures. However, our measure of effect size has the
advantage of having a concrete meaning because it can be directly translated into a
percentage diversity loss, e.g.: "phylogenetic diversity loss in relation to a natural N
deposition was estimated at 19%".
Secondly, the authors present full statistical models, with numerous covariates, but no attempt
for model simplification (i.e. elimination of non-relevant variables) based on a criterion of
model fit such as AIC has been tried.
We agree that model reduction would be an option. However, we chose the full models for
making inference because this usually leads to the most conservative results. We also added
his explanation to the MS.
The effect of the altitude becomes an important part of the discussion and results but has not
been put in context in the introduction.
We added an explanation how we think that the altitudinal gradient covered in our study adds
o the generality our findings.
A few more details on how the phylogenetic diversity was derived would also be welcome.
We generally extended the description of our methods.
Reviewer: 2
The objective of the work outlined in this manuscript is to evaluate whether an increase in N
availability affects various aspects of plant diversity at large spatial scales. This is a very
mportant objective to achieve because N enrichment is thought to be one of the biggest
hreats to plant biodiversity but this premise is based primarily on the results from small scale
experiments. Consequently, I think work that attempts to evaluate how well small scale
results translate to larger spatial scales is very important. In general, I thought the manuscript
was well written but my biggest problem with the manuscript was understanding what the
authors really did to quantify how much N enrichment reduced biodiversity relative to that
which would be expected had N enrichment not occurred. The description in the methods
(lines 80-83) were too vague. I understand what they were trying to achieve (basically create
a “control” for no nitrogen addition) but I do not understand how this can be done. The
authors may have a good way to do this but I cannot evaluate it and this is an important part
of the paper.
We agree and improved the description of the methods.
I think the basic regressions they performed were very informative and demonstrates that
various aspects of plant diversity varies with N availability but they need to do more
explaining so that readers can really accept the amount of diversity loss that has occurred.
What about Beta diversity? The paper by Chalcraft et al. emphasizes that N enrichment
affects diversity differently at large spatial scales than at small spatial scales because it alters
spatial variation in species composition. Your results suggest that beta diversity would be
ower but they do not present data or discuss this issue.
We added an entire paragraph to discuss these issues.
Details:
Lines 35-37: The Chalcraft et al. study indicates that small scale studies can often
overestimate or underestimate diversity loss at larger scales depending on background
productivity levels. They do not indicate that small scale studies generally overestimate
diversity loss at large spatial scales.
Changed.
Lines 47-51: I am not clear what a “plot” is. Was a plot 5m wide (2.5 m on either side of a
road) by 2.5 km long? Is it really possible to identify all plants within 381 plots of this size?
Were there subsamples taken? Was it just presence/absence data that were recorded?
We improved the description of our methods.
Lines 57-60. How was community uniqueness determined? There are multiple pairwise
comparisons among plots that would result in multiple estimates of community uniqueness for
an individual plot. Did you average community uniqueness values for all plots?
Yes, we did. We improved the description of the methods for community uniqueness.
I also don’t think the interpretation of the uniqueness scores are correct. If they are
dissimilarity scores, values close to 1 indicate that plots contain very different sets of species
but does not make reference to anything about rare or common species.
We agree that a value of 1 indicate that a plot contains species that are very different from all
he species of the other plots. Since the respective species occurred only on a few plots, they
were also rare species (at least within the study area). We improved the description of the
methods and added references.
references occur in the manuscript.
Changed.
The discussion was a little light given the importance of the subject.
We now discuss the results in more depth.
Society Open
