Social signals and algorithmic trading of Bitcoin
David Garcia and Frank Schweitzer
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150288.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150288
Review timeline
Original submission: 23 June 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 17 August 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 28 August 2015 appears in chronological order.
Note: Transferred from another Royal Society Journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150288.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Sufficient.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Garcia and Schweitzer contribute to a recent line of research, which investigates human online
activity and how it relates to subsequent changes in financial time series, by studying the Bitcoin
market. They claim to have developed a profitable trading strategy for the Bitcoin market.
The manuscript seems to be original and interesting and a revised version of this manuscript
could be considered for publication in Royal Society Open Science after the authors have
addressed my concerns and questions below:
* The authors perform a cost analysis but do not elaborate on the fact that the results strongly
depend on the exact realisation of opening and closing positions. The framework proposes to
keep positions open and unchanged if the trading signal does not change. However, there is no
reason to believe that the trading signal might not change more in the future, increasing the cost
of trading using the described strategy. Would it be possible to describe the results in a worst
case scenario in which positions need to be opened and closed every day?
* Given the immature nature of the Bitcoin market and the choice of the authors to study the year
2014 as an out-of-sample period, the question arises to which extent the results just depend on the
bearish market state during this period. To address this problem the authors should separate
their trading strategy into its long/flat only and short/flat only components to investigate
whether one part of the strategy is driving the results. It would also be extremely helpful to
demonstrate that their strategy is successful in the out-of-sample period from January 2015 until
the end of July 2015, which should now be available for analysis.
* The authors' key result is presented in Figure 4, which highlights some issues in the assessment
of the proposed strategy’s returns. Firstly, the time series plots on the left suggest that strategies
may produce positive returns in a couple of months only. The final assessment of the returns is
currently based on their cumulative profits, as depicted in the kernel density plots on the right,
where these profits could be strongly influenced by movements in one very small time period. A
correct assessment would investigate monthly outcomes of all the strategies. Secondly, I
appreciate that variable end dates for applying the strategies are explored. However, this means
that the cumulative profit distributions reflect consideration of the well performing months at the
beginning of the period on multiple occasions. Lastly, I would caution the authors that it may be
seen as scientifically questionable to highlight the cumulative return of 200% achieved by one
strategy when multiple strategies have been tested. I would suggest that the authors may wish to
rephrase some of these sections to protect themselves against the accusation of having cherry-
picked results following multiple comparisons.
* The authors mention that daily Bitcoin prices are recorded at 23:59 GMT each day. However,
the authors do not provide any information on daily cut-off times and times of availability for the
other data sources, which could possibly have flawed their analyses and results. For example,
daily data on search activity from Google Trends, depending on how it is accessed, is available
two days later and usually cut-off times relate to Pacific Standard Time / Pacific Daylight Time.
Given the one day's lag used on the trading framework which the authors present, daily time
series need to be synchronised across time zones.
* The authors do not provide any information on when and from which sources the various
online datasets were retrieved.
* The authors claim universal applicability of their approach. However, the Bitcoin market is a
market which is not yet mature and therefore a very special instrument to trade. If the authors do
not present further evidence using other financial instruments, any claims regarding the
universality should be avoided.
3
* The exact strategy needs to be explained. At the moment, it remains unclear which fraction of
the portfolio is invested and how it increases or decreases based on decisions made to buy or sell.
Are positions opened and closed using the daily closing price at 23:59 GMT? From which time
period stem other daily indicators in this case used to make a decision and act at 23:59 GMT?
* I would suggest that the authors may wish to revisit the tone in which they report their results
and relate them to existing research in this area. In particular, it is not clear that the authors'
criticisms of existing methods to incorporate and exploit online data streams are built on
sufficient evidence. The authors also make very strong claims in the concluding remarks, for
example suggesting that their strategies "can reach profits around 200% in less than a year" or
"With our study, we have shown how social signals can be turned into profit". It could be argued
that the analysis presented does not provide enough support for these statements, in particular
given the concerns outlined above.
* Previous work on the relationship between online activity and financial time series which the
authors should refer to and acknowledge in their paper includes:
- The relationship between both Google searches and Wikipedia access logs and the Bitcoin
market has been analysed in:
http://www.nature.com/srep/2013/131204/srep03415/pdf/srep03415.pdf
- Search volume for company names was found to be correlated with weekly stock transaction
volumes: http://rsta.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/368/1933/5707.short
- Increases in financially related Google searches were profitably linked to subsequent stock
market losses using a similar trading strategy framework as the authors use:
http://www.nature.com/srep/2013/130425/srep01684/pdf/srep01684.pdf
- Similarly, information on how often company related pages or financial content is accessed on
Wikipedia revealed significant hints about subsequent market moves:
http://www.nature.com/srep/2013/130508/srep01801/pdf/srep01801.pdf
- Information on Google searches can be used for portfolio diversification:
http://www.nature.com/srep/2013/130919/srep02713/pdf/srep02713.pdf
* Typos include:
- Page 3, line 17: "their their" -> "their"
- Page 9, line 48: "left panel" -> "right panel"
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, it is clear.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
4
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors have a very nice paper. The results are credible and interesting and a contribution to
the literature. I have only a few comments:
1) On page 2, the authors discuss Silk Road. One recent paper that has documented the
importance of Silk Road and its interaction with Bitcoin is: Yelowitz, A., and Wilson, M., 2015,
"Characteristics of Bitcoin users: an analysis of Google search data," Applied Economics Letters,
22(13), 1030-1036. This paper should be included in the summary of knowledge of Bitcoin.
2) On page 6, the authors discuss the level of search volume in Google for Bitcoin, using Google
Trends. They should be clear whether this is the Google Trends search term for Bitcoin alone, or
Google's grouping of search terms for "Bitcoin - Currency". See Yelowitz & Wilson, Figure 3.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Jerry Dwyer)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Attached file (see Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150288)
03-Aug-2015
Dear Dr Garcia,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Social signals and algorithmic trading of Bitcoin") has
now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance
with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including
5
confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual
acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 26-Aug-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
6
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Please resubmit and take on board all of the comments of the larger review please. If you disagree
with any of the comments, please explain (in a separate note) why you do not follow them. We
will ask this reviewer to re-review the revised submission.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have a very nice paper. The results are credible and interesting and a contribution to
the literature. I have only a few comments:
1) On page 2, the authors discuss Silk Road. One recent paper that has documented the
importance of Silk Road and its interaction with Bitcoin is: Yelowitz, A., and Wilson, M., 2015,
"Characteristics of Bitcoin users: an analysis of Google search data," Applied Economics Letters,
22(13), 1030-1036. This paper should be included in the summary of knowledge of Bitcoin.
2) On page 6, the authors discuss the level of search volume in Google for Bitcoin, using Google
Trends. They should be clear whether this is the Google Trends search term for Bitcoin alone, or
Google's grouping of search terms for "Bitcoin - Currency". See Yelowitz & Wilson, Figure 3.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Attached file
7
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
Garcia and Schweitzer contribute to a recent line of research, which investigates human online
activity and how it relates to subsequent changes in financial time series, by studying the Bitcoin
market. They claim to have developed a profitable trading strategy for the Bitcoin market.
The manuscript seems to be original and interesting and a revised version of this manuscript
could be considered for publication in Royal Society Open Science after the authors have
addressed my concerns and questions below:
* The authors perform a cost analysis but do not elaborate on the fact that the results strongly
depend on the exact realisation of opening and closing positions. The framework proposes to
keep positions open and unchanged if the trading signal does not change. However, there is no
reason to believe that the trading signal might not change more in the future, increasing the cost
of trading using the described strategy. Would it be possible to describe the results in a worst
case scenario in which positions need to be opened and closed every day?
* Given the immature nature of the Bitcoin market and the choice of the authors to study the year
2014 as an out-of-sample period, the question arises to which extent the results just depend on the
bearish market state during this period. To address this problem the authors should separate
their trading strategy into its long/flat only and short/flat only components to investigate
whether one part of the strategy is driving the results. It would also be extremely helpful to
demonstrate that their strategy is successful in the out-of-sample period from January 2015 until
the end of July 2015, which should now be available for analysis.
* The authors' key result is presented in Figure 4, which highlights some issues in the assessment
of the proposed strategy’s returns. Firstly, the time series plots on the left suggest that strategies
may produce positive returns in a couple of months only. The final assessment of the returns is
currently based on their cumulative profits, as depicted in the kernel density plots on the right,
where these profits could be strongly influenced by movements in one very small time period. A
correct assessment would investigate monthly outcomes of all the strategies. Secondly, I
appreciate that variable end dates for applying the strategies are explored. However, this means
that the cumulative profit distributions reflect consideration of the well performing months at the
beginning of the period on multiple occasions. Lastly, I would caution the authors that it may be
seen as scientifically questionable to highlight the cumulative return of 200% achieved by one
strategy when multiple strategies have been tested. I would suggest that the authors may wish to
rephrase some of these sections to protect themselves against the accusation of having cherry-
picked results following multiple comparisons.
* The authors mention that daily Bitcoin prices are recorded at 23:59 GMT each day. However,
the authors do not provide any information on daily cut-off times and times of availability for the
other data sources, which could possibly have flawed their analyses and results. For example,
daily data on search activity from Google Trends, depending on how it is accessed, is available
two days later and usually cut-off times relate to Pacific Standard Time / Pacific Daylight Time.
Given the one day's lag used on the trading framework which the authors present, daily time
series need to be synchronised across time zones.
* The authors do not provide any information on when and from which sources the various
online datasets were retrieved.
* The authors claim universal applicability of their approach. However, the Bitcoin market is a
market which is not yet mature and therefore a very special instrument to trade. If the authors do
not present further evidence using other financial instruments, any claims regarding the
universality should be avoided.
8
* The exact strategy needs to be explained. At the moment, it remains unclear which fraction of
the portfolio is invested and how it increases or decreases based on decisions made to buy or sell.
Are positions opened and closed using the daily closing price at 23:59 GMT? From which time
period stem other daily indicators in this case used to make a decision and act at 23:59 GMT?
* I would suggest that the authors may wish to revisit the tone in which they report their results
and relate them to existing research in this area. In particular, it is not clear that the authors'
criticisms of existing methods to incorporate and exploit online data streams are built on
sufficient evidence. The authors also make very strong claims in the concluding remarks, for
example suggesting that their strategies "can reach profits around 200% in less than a year" or
"With our study, we have shown how social signals can be turned into profit". It could be argued
that the analysis presented does not provide enough support for these statements, in particular
given the concerns outlined above.
* Previous work on the relationship between online activity and financial time series which the
authors should refer to and acknowledge in their paper includes:
- The relationship between both Google searches and Wikipedia access logs and the Bitcoin
market has been analysed in:
http://www.nature.com/srep/2013/131204/srep03415/pdf/srep03415.pdf
- Search volume for company names was found to be correlated with weekly stock transaction
volumes: http://rsta.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/368/1933/5707.short
- Increases in financially related Google searches were profitably linked to subsequent stock
market losses using a similar trading strategy framework as the authors use:
http://www.nature.com/srep/2013/130425/srep01684/pdf/srep01684.pdf
- Similarly, information on how often company related pages or financial content is accessed on
Wikipedia revealed significant hints about subsequent market moves:
http://www.nature.com/srep/2013/130508/srep01801/pdf/srep01801.pdf
- Information on Google searches can be used for portfolio diversification:
http://www.nature.com/srep/2013/130919/srep02713/pdf/srep02713.pdf
* Typos include:
- Page 3, line 17: "their their" -> "their"
- Page 9, line 48: "left panel" -> "right panel"
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150288)
We proceed to reply to each question and comment of the reviewers in order:
> Reviewer: 1
> 1) On page 2, the authors discuss Silk Road. One recent paper that has
> documented the importance of Silk Road and its interaction with Bitcoin is:
> Yelowitz, A., and Wilson, M., 2015, "Characteristics of Bitcoin users: an
> analysis of Google search data," Applied Economics Letters, 22(13), 1030-1036.
> This paper should be included in the summary of knowledge of Bitcoin.
We thank the reviewer for suggesting this reference, which
provides a contrast to the previous analyses of Bitcoin usage motives.
We cited it in the following reference to the Silk Road:
"One of the first markets to adopt Bitcoin was the Silk Road, a website where
9
illegal commerce became possible thanks to the relative anonymity of Bitcoin
(Christin, 2013), in line with the evidence in search trends that relates
Bitcoin usage to computer expertise and illegal activities (Yellowitz and
Wilson, 2015)."
> 2) On page 6, the authors discuss the level of search volume in Google for
> Bitcoin, using Google Trends. They should be clear whether this is the Google
> Trends search term for Bitcoin alone, or Google's grouping of search terms for
> "Bitcoin - Currency". See Yelowitz & Wilson, Figure 3.
We thank the reviewer for this comment, since our previous version did not
fully explain the design decision of using "Bitcoin" as a search term. The
disambiguation of search terms that Google trends currently provides is based
on a recent integration with Freebase. While the approach of using the topic
"Bitcoin - Currency" is appropriate for studying the demographics of Bitcoin
users, we cannot extend this to historical analysis and prediction because
such functionality did not exist during the full time span we analyze. To
clarify this technical difference, we added a comment in the Materials and
methods section to put our approach in reference to the design of Yelowitz &
Wilson:
"We choose the search term "bitcoin" instead of the "Bitcon - Currency" topic,
which was introduced as a functionality of Google Trends during our analysis
period. While the topic approach can be more precise for demographics and
motive analysis (Yellowitz and Wilson, 2015), we follow a homogeneous approach
including only the term trend data that was available during the whole study
period."
> Reviewer: 2
> The weakest part of the paper is the claim that the paper shows it is
> possible to profitably trade on the basis of the relationships estimated in
> the paper. There are two problems. First, prices are represented by an index
> of prices constructed by CoinDesk. This is a fine index which averages the
> prices on the most-liquid exchanges. Still, it is an index and is not actually
> tradeable. While this might seem like a quibble, trades are executed at actual
> prices and it takes actual prices to be convincing that profits can be
> earned. For example, the index is an average and unpredictable deviations
> from the average may be important. Second, the trades include short sales.
>
> Because an index is used, I take the evidence as indicative that it may be
10
> possible to use daily data and execute profitable trades on exchanges. Other
> than a caveat or more guarded statement here or there, this concern need not
> affect the paper.
We agree with the reviewer that the validation against the BPI has the limitation
that it is not actually tradeable. To overcome this issue, we repeated the
validation of our strategies versus the actual closing price of one the most
liquid markets in the last years (Bitfinex). In the current version, we
report the results of the validation of strategies using the actual closing
price of Bitfinex, which leads to slightly different results but qualitatively
unchanged with respect to the performance of trading strategies.
> The concern about short sales is less fundamental but requires more
> attention. Short sales of corporate stock in the United States, for
> example, occur in a well-known institutional setting. If I wanted to short
> bitcoin on a regular but temporary basis, I do not know how I would do that.
> I am dubious that it is possible for typical traders in bitcoin to short
> bitcoin in an organized and relatively risk-free way. If it is possible,
> then you should carefully explain how it is done and why the counter-party
> risk is minimal or zero. Also, you should explain how margining occurs and
> the cost of providing the margin. If bitcoin are not shorted in a
> predictable setting, then the gains from trading bitcoin have to be
> recomputed as the gains from being more or less long or holding no bitcoins
> at all.
In the first version of the article, we refer to the details about shorting in
Bitcoin exchange markets by referring to Bitfinex: [39] Bitfinex.
Features - short. (https://www.bitfinex.com/pages/features). The reviewer is
right in pointing to our responsibility to explain more in detail the
conditions of shorting and the possible associated risks. In the new version
of the manuscript we provide a much more detailed analysis of the different
roles of long and short positions, evaluating the combined strategy when
taking only short and only long positions as part of the risk assessment.
We also warn of the possible hidden risks of shorting, in line with market
events difficult to foresee, such as the closure of Mt. Gox:
"In addition, structural changes and additional risks in borrowing and lending
Bitcoin for shorting can emerge when exchange markets close or governments
regulate Bitcoin, changing the rules of the game in a way such that our
trading strategies might not work any more."
11
> Transactions costs are important to your computation. As I understand it, for example
from
> Antonopoulos (2014, pp. 119-20), fees are not based on the value of the transaction. As a
> result, it seems likely that your computations grossly overstate the transactions costs. A
more
> realistic computation, even if generous but at least related to the actual way such costs
are
> computed, would be an improvement.
We appreciate the interest of the reviewer to evaluate if trading costs were
overstated in our analysis. The book of Andreas Antonopoulos deals with
technical aspects of Bitcoin as a technology, and the transaction fees that
are discussed in the book are those belonging to the blockchain. Indeed
transaction fees in the blockchain are unrelated to the volume of the
transaction, but the costs we added in our analysis are derived from trading
for fiat currencies in Bitcoin exchange markets. The two fees should not be
confused, in particular since trading costs in exchange markets are
proportional to the value of the trade. For this reason, we used the term
"trading cost" rather than "transaction fee", and added a reference to the
cost structure of Bitfinex. We stressed the difference in the new writing of
the costs section:
"These trading costs should not be confused with the transaction fees in the
Block Chain (Nakamoto, 2008), which do not depend on the transacted cost and
are not associated to any market of exchange to other currencies."
> I also would like to see some discussion of when the data used in the analysis become
> available. The trades are supposed to be executed at 23:59 GMT. Are all of the data
necessary
> for the computation of the desired trade available on a regular basis at that time? Have
they
> been available at that time since February 1, 2011? If you don’t know the answer to the
last
> question, that’s fine but some comment about it would be helpful.
We added more details about the availability in time of the signals necessary
for trading strategies. The only signal that is received with a significant
delay is the google search volume, but search is not included in the trading
strategies and thus this does not impose a limitation to our results. The new
social signals subsection of Materials and Methods reviews much more in detail
the datasources and their timings.
12
> Specific Comments
> The elements of V(t) need not be stationary. The underlying assumption is that the
elements of
> V(t) are covariance stationary.
> You say “verify that ... their variances do not greatly differ....” This is not what the tests,
called
> “unit-root tests” in the economics and finance literature, accomplish. If a series has a unit
root,
> then it has unbounded variance (which you mention later). The variables would not be
> covariance stationary but the variances of all variables in a certain sense would be the
same
> across time and variables if they all have unit roots. If the series do not have unit roots,
they
> can have time-varying variances. The variances can be unbounded as well. Not having a
unit
> root is necessary but not sufficient for a variable to have a bounded variance and does
not
> imply that the variable’s variance is constant over time. I would not suggest you pursue
this
> issue further; it is unlikely to have any effect on your general conclusion. Given your
audience, I
> am not sure how you want to say it since you don’t appear to want to just say “unit-root
tests”.
> I would suggest something more like “test whether the series have a random-walk
component”
> or maybe something else.
We would like to thank the reviewer for this comment, since our previous
writing on the matter was imprecise. We took it into account and rewrote the
reference to the unit root tests as suggested by the reviewer.
> The strategy of using the Bayesian Information Criteria to determine the lag length is
more
> common, at least in economics and finance, than using a shorter lag length and
“correcting” for
> serially correlated errors in Vector Autoregressions. At the least, I would mention this
> alternative when saying on page 4/21 what you did. As you say, it doesn’t make any
difference,
> which is what I would have expected. They just are different ways of looking at the same
thing.
13
We thank the reviewer for this comment and for the consideration of the
article within the finance and economics communities. While longer lags would
not be an issue in the case of this article, their inclusion in combination
with other possible extensions to our framework is worth noting. We mentioned
this as possible alternative in other applications:
"Nevertheless, improvements can be expected from the addition of longer time
lags, higher frequency trading, and real-time optimization approaches."
We would like to thank reviewer 2 for their constructive criticism, which has
helped us to better clarify the data, methods, and conclusions of the article.
Reviewer: 3
> * The authors perform a cost analysis but do not elaborate on the fact that
> the results strongly depend on the exact realisation of opening and closing
> positions. The framework proposes to keep positions open and unchanged if
> the trading signal does not change. However, there is no reason to believe
> that the trading signal might not change more in the future, increasing the
> cost of trading using the described strategy. Would it be possible to
> describe the results in a worst case scenario in which positions need to be
> opened and closed every day?
Our previous cost analysis did not include any possible forcing of closing
positions, but it is worth exploring as in previous research. We repeated the
cost analysis including the mentioned limitation in trading, and found that
the combined strategy is still profitable for trading costs below 0.125 %, a
lower value than allowing open positions. To fully acknowledge this caveat, we
added this additional cost analysis to the SI and referred to it in the
results section:
"Furthermore, we repeat this analysis assuming the limitation that daily
positions need to be forcefully closed at the end of each trading period
(shown in SI), finding a decrease in returns but that the strategy is still
profitable for trading costs of 0.1%, a typically high cost of current
exchange platforms [45]."
> * Given the immature nature of the Bitcoin market and the choice of the
> authors to study the year 2014 as an out-of-sample period, the question
> arises to which extent the results just depend on the bearish market state
> during this period. To address this problem the authors should separate
> their trading strategy into its long/flat only and short/flat only
14
> components to investigate whether one part of the strategy is driving the
> results. It would also be extremely helpful to demonstrate that their
> strategy is successful in the out-of-sample period from January 2015 until
> the end of July 2015, which should now be available for analysis.
We agree with the reviewer that the nature of the out-of-sample period needs
closer inspection in order to understand the conditions in which the strategy
is being evaluated. As proposed by the reviewer, we evaluated the trading
strategy using only long and only short positions, which we provide in the new
section "Only short/long combined strategy evaluation" of the SI. This
analysis allowed us to assess the importance of shorting in a bearish period,
since the cumulative returns are higher in the only short than the only long
condition. The period between January 1st and end of July 2015 is also bearish
(-8.5%) and does not show any bubble behavior that motivates an extension of
the validation period. In addition, this article has been under review and
publicly discussed in scientific conferences and mass media since the
beginning of 2015, and thus we cannot assume any more that the strategy has no
influence on the system. Nevertheless, we agree with the reviewer that this is
an important point, and calls for further research that can evaluate the
impact of new datasources in financial markets, following the approach of
Curme et. al. 2014.
We included a comment to the application of the only short/only long
evaluation as part of the risks section:
"In this application, the leave-out period is characterized by decreasing BTC
prices. Thus, it is important to evaluate the role of each possible trading
action: longing when BTC are bought to be sold later, and shorting when they
are borrowed and traded as explained above. We repeat the backtesting of the
Combined strategy allowing only short and only long positions, following the
methodology of (Preis, Moat, and Stanley, 2013). As reported more in detail in
the SI, the only short strategy yields higher cumulative returns than the only
long strategy, as expected from a period in which prices decrease steadily."
We also added a comment on the need for future validations that can cover price
bubbles and evaluate the role of the strategy in the market dynamics:
"Our evaluation goes as far as the representativity of the leave-out sample,
and future research should evaluate the performance of our approach when
prices rise and when traders are aware of the existence of our trading
strategies. Financial markets are known to quickly absorb knowledge, as it
happened with the inclusion of search trends data in stock trading (Curme et.
al. 2014)."
15
> * The authors' key result is presented in Figure 4, which highlights some
> issues in the assessment of the proposed strategy’s returns. Firstly, the
> time series plots on the left suggest that strategies may produce positive
> returns in a couple of months only. The final assessment of the returns is
> currently based on their cumulative profits, as depicted in the kernel
> density plots on the right, where these profits could be strongly influenced
> by movements in one very small time period. A correct assessment would
> investigate monthly outcomes of all the strategies. Secondly, I appreciate
> that variable end dates for applying the strategies are explored. However,
> this means that the cumulative profit distributions reflect consideration of
> the well performing months at the beginning of the period on multiple
> occasions.
We thank the reviewer for this comment, pointing out some of the
issues of strategy evaluation through cumulative returns. We agree that the
previous version overemphasized the returns in the earliest part of the
leave-out period, and that the evaluation statistics need to take this into
account. Testing cumulative returns on a monthly basis would alleviate the
issue of the higher weight of early months, but would suffer a similar problem
within the month: Given the multiplicative nature of trading results,
surveying cumulative returns on each month would unavoidably overweight the
results in the first days of the month.
To overcome the issues raised by the reviewer, we restructured the Bitcoin
strategy evaluation section to add new statistics that do not suffer any
temporal bias. We start showing the analysis of cumulative returns to provide
an illustration of the behaviour of the strategies in line with previous
research, validating their performance by comparing the Sharpe ratios of each
strategy. The benefit of using the Sharpe ratio is that it is based on daily
differential returns rather than on cumulative ones, having each trading day
the same weight in the statistic. We also included the average daily returns
in Table 1, showing this way a robust assessment of how the social signals
lead to positive returns on investment and how their combination outperforms
each one and technical strategies.
We motivate the use of the Sharpe Ratio at this point in the following text:
"While surveying cumulative returns is illustrative of the performance of the
strategies, the multiplicative nature of cumulative returns overweights early
positions and is biased towards the beginning of the evaluation period. To
properly evaluate trading strategies, we calculated the Sharpe Ratio (Sharpe,
1970)"
16
And we summarize the consistency between the cumulative returns and this
Sharpe Ratio analysis in the following paragraph:
"Table 1 reports the Sharpe Ratio SR and the mean daily return µR for all
strategies, as well as for the DJIA and the average of 10000 random traders.
The Sharpe Ratio analysis is consistent with the results of the cumulative
returns analysis, showing that the Combined strategy provides the highest
returns, with the best SR value above 1.75 and with daily returns above 0.3%
per day. "
> Lastly, I would caution the authors that it may be seen as scientifically
> questionable to highlight the cumulative return of 200% achieved by one
> strategy when multiple strategies have been tested. I would suggest that the
> authors may wish to rephrase some of these sections to protect themselves
> against the accusation of having cherry-picked results following multiple
> comparisons.
We thank the reviewer for this comment. It is our least intention to
oversell the 200% result as some sort of natural property of the system. We
changed the abstract and the conclusions to avoid too much emphasis on
the 200% result, motivating the readers to read the full article to be able to
objectively judge the results.
> * The authors mention that daily Bitcoin prices are recorded at 23:59 GMT each
> day. However, the authors do not provide any information on daily cut-off
> times and times of availability for the other data sources, which could
> possibly have flawed their analyses and results. For example, daily data on
> search activity from Google Trends, depending on how it is accessed, is
> available two days later and usually cut-off times relate to Pacific
> Standard Time / Pacific Daylight Time. Given the one day's lag used on the
> trading framework which the authors present, daily time series need to be
> synchronised across time zones. The authors do not provide any information on
> when and from which sources the various online datasets were retrieved.
In the previous version of our article, the data section was unnecessarily
short and left open questions like the ones asked by the reviewer. Our
intention is to provide the most transparent and tractable application
scenario for our framework, and we appreciate the emphasis of the reviewer on
details on timing and sources of data. To address this, we have extensively
improved the Economic signals and the Social signals sections, adding precise
references to the data sources, interfaces, and timestamps used in the study.
Furthermore, we provide a precise comment on the additional delay of Google
17
Trends, which would be an issue if used for trading strategies, but which is
not the case in our study.
> * The exact strategy needs to be explained. At the moment, it remains unclear
> which fraction of the portfolio is invested and how it increases or
> decreases based on decisions made to buy or sell. Are positions opened and
> closed using the daily closing price at 23:59 GMT? From which time period
> stem other daily indicators in this case used to make a decision and act at
> 23:59 GMT?
We thank the reviewer for these questions. We devoted more text
to explain the particularities of the backtesting scenario, and included a
pseudocode to reproduce our results in the Materials and Methods section:
"Buy and sell orders have respective costs cb and cs, which are proportional
to the total traded capital. In our case we assume all costs are equal c = cb
= cs, leaving particular realizations of the costs as open for future
research. We compute daily cumulative returns when trading stops at t+1,
holding USD or selling BTC at the price of t+1. Our trading simulations have a
limit on short selling set by the amount of capital held by the trader and
assume that short selling needs to be instantly executed, i.e. short positions
are limited to one iteration. In summary, the strategy we execute is a single-
asset backtesting scenario in which 100% of the capital is invested at each
time step and shorting is limited. The pseudocode of this simulation is shown
in Algorithm 1."
> * The authors claim universal applicability of their approach. However, the
> Bitcoin market is a market which is not yet mature and therefore a very
> special instrument to trade. If the authors do not present further evidence
> using other financial instruments, any claims regarding the universality
> should be avoided.
> * I would suggest that the authors may wish to revisit the tone in which they
> report their results and relate them to existing research in this area. In
> particular, it is not clear that the authors' criticisms of existing methods
> to incorporate and exploit online data streams are built on sufficient
> evidence. The authors also make very strong claims in the concluding
> remarks, for example suggesting that their strategies "can reach profits
> around 200% in less than a year" or "With our study, we have shown how
> social signals can be turned into profit". It could be argued that the
> analysis presented does not provide enough support for these statements, in
> particular given the concerns outlined above.
18
We made the best of our efforts to generalize our methodology and facilitate
further applications that can test if social signals can drive strategies to
positive returns on investment. We never claimed any sort of universality in
our findings, in fact we never use the word "universal" in the whole
manuscript. To clarify this misunderstanding, we have rewritten the references to
the possible applications of the framework and revised the wording of our
conclusions, to emphasize that we show that it is possible, but not
necessarily universal that social signals can be turned into profit:
"We evaluated the profitability of our strategies through data-driven
simulations of a computational model of a trader, showing that a strategy that
combines valence, polarization, and exchange volume can reach very high
profits in less than a year. The added value of including polarization in our
analysis constitutes evidence that collective factors of emotions and opinions
have the potential to predict financial returns, beyond trivial macroscopic
aggregates like average valence."
"The profitability of these strategies illustrate how social media sentiment
can produce positive returns on investment, especially when including
polarization measures beyond the trivial quantification of valence or mood."
"Our framework can be applied to other trading scenarios in which social
signals are available"
"With our study, we have shown that it is possible to turn social signals into
profit."
> * Previous work on the relationship between online activity and financial time series
which the authors should refer to and acknowledge in their paper includes:
> - The relationship between both Google searches and Wikipedia access logs and the
Bitcoin market has been analysed in:
http://www.nature.com/srep/2013/131204/srep03415/pdf/srep03415.pdf
> - Search volume for company names was found to be correlated with weekly stock
transaction volumes: http://rsta.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/368/1933/5707.short
> - Increases in financially related Google searches were profitably linked to subsequent
stock market losses using a similar trading strategy framework as the authors use:
http://www.nature.com/srep/2013/130425/srep01684/pdf/srep01684.pdf
> - Similarly, information on how often company related pages or financial content is
accessed on Wikipedia revealed significant hints about subsequent market moves:
http://www.nature.com/srep/2013/130508/srep01801/pdf/srep01801.pdf
> - Information on Google searches can be used for portfolio diversification:
http://www.nature.com/srep/2013/130919/srep02713/pdf/srep02713.pdf
19
We took into account the suggestion of the reviewer to provide a detailed
review of the works of T. Preis and S. Moat. We added references to their work
where relevant:
"motivating the inclusion of large-scale social signals and the evaluation
through data-driven simulations on historical data, called backtesting (Preis,
Moat and Stanley, 2013, Curme et. al. 2014)"
We also commented more precisely on the previous works on Bitcoin by L. Kristoufek
in the introduction:
"Previous research has shown how search trends and Wikipedia views are related
to price changes (Kristoufek, 2013) and to the speculative and monetary
aspects of Bitcoin (Kristoufek, 2015), leading to dynamics that combine search
interest, user adoption, word-of-mouth, and prices (Garcia et. al. 2014)."
> * Typos include:
> - Page 3, line 17: "their their" -> "their"
> - Page 9, line 48: "left panel" -> "right panel"
We thank the reviewer for finding and reporting these typos.
pendix A
Referee Report
on
Social Signals and Algorithmic Trading of Bitcoin
Gerald P. Dwyer
Clemson University
University of Carlos III, Madrid
s is a very interesting paper and, overall, is nicely done. I enjoyed reading it and found it
resting and informative. Your paper does an excellent job of showing the influences on
oin prices on a daily basis and that, at least in a loose way, how it might be possible to
fitably trade on the basis of those influences.
weakest part of the paper is the claim that the paper shows it is possible to profitably trade
the basis of the relationships estimated in the paper. There are two problems. First, prices
represented by an index of prices constructed by CoinDesk. This is a fine index which
rages the prices on the most-liquid exchanges. Still, it is an index and is not actually
deable. While this might seem like a quibble, trades are executed at actual prices and it takes
ual prices to be convincing that profits can be earned. For example, the index is an average
unpredictable deviations from the average may be important. Second, the trades include
rt sales.
ause an index is used, I take the evidence as indicative that it may be possible to use daily
a and execute profitable trades on exchanges. Other than a caveat or more guarded
tement here or there, this concern need not affect the paper.
concern about short sales is less fundamental but requires more attention. Short sales of
porate stock in the United States, for example, occur in a well-known institutional setting. If I
nted to short bitcoin on a regular but temporary basis, I do not know how I would do that. I
dubious that it is possible for typical traders in bitcoin to short bitcoin in an organized and
tively risk-free way. If it is possible, then you should carefully explain how it is done and why
counter-party risk is minimal or zero. Also, you should explain how margining occurs and
cost of providing the margin. If bitcoin are not shorted in a predictable setting, then the
ns from trading bitcoin have to be recomputed as the gains from being more or less long or
ding no bitcoins at all.
nsactions costs are important to your computation. As I understand it, for example from
onopoulos (2014, pp. 119-20), fees are not based on the value of the transaction. As a
ult, it seems likely that your computations grossly overstate the transactions costs. A more
listic computation, even if generous but at least related to the actual way such costs are
puted, would be an improvement.
so would like to see some discussion of when the data used in the analysis become
ilable. The trades are supposed to be executed at 23:59 GMT. Are all of the data necessary
the computation of the desired trade available on a regular basis at that time? Have they
n available at that time since February 1, 2011? If you don’t know the answer to the last
stion, that’s fine but some comment about it would be helpful.
cific Comments
es 4/21 and 5/21
elements of V(t) need not be stationary. The underlying assumption is that the elements of
are covariance stationary.
say “verify that … their variances do not greatly differ….” This is not what the tests, called
it-root tests” in the economics and finance literature, accomplish. If a series has a unit root,
n it has unbounded variance (which you mention later). The variables would not be
ariance stationary but the variances of all variables in a certain sense would be the same
oss time and variables if they all have unit roots. If the series do not have unit roots, they
have time-varying variances. The variances can be unbounded as well. Not having a unit
t is necessary but not sufficient for a variable to have a bounded variance and does not
ly that the variable’s variance is constant over time. I would not suggest you pursue this
e further; it is unlikely to have any effect on your general conclusion. Given your audience, I
not sure how you want to say it since you don’t appear to want to just say “unit-root tests”.
ould suggest something more like “test whether the series have a random-walk component”
maybe something else.
e 8/21
strategy of using the Bayesian Information Criteria to determine the lag length is more
mon, at least in economics and finance, than using a shorter lag length and “correcting” for
ally correlated errors in Vector Autoregressions. At the least, I would mention this
rnative when saying on page 4/21 what you did. As you say, it doesn’t make any difference,
ch is what I would have expected. They just are different ways of looking at the same thing.
Society Open
