A facile synthesis of cysteine-based diketopiperazine from
thiol-protected precursor
Di Zhang and Wayne Wang
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180272.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180272
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 February 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 7 May 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 14 May 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180272.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript describes the formation of a series of diketopyperazines derived from protected
cysteine and their application to silver ions chelation.
The paper has been already modified after a previous submission and now it may be published
after some minor revisions listed below.
- The graphical abstract is too full, so it is not clear which isomer gives each CD spectrum. The
authors should semplify it.
- I have not fully understood which information can be obtained by NOESY experiments. The
cross peak between NH and CHa do not give any confirmation of the stereochemistry in my
opinion, so the authors should explain the results that have been obtained.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
Yes
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This is a review of a manuscript describing the preparation of cyclic amino acid dimers of
protected cysteine.
Whilst the authors have corrected the majority of the issues raised previously. However, it is
noted that some of the compounds still does not satisfy the standard required for compound
identification and purity analysis. In addition, the author should note that NMR spectroscopy is
a method of identification and does not satisfy purity requirements; the latter requires elemental
analysis or similar.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180272.R0)
01-May-2018
Dear Dr Zhang:
Title: A facile synthesis of cysteine-based diketopiperazine from thiol-protected precursor
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180272
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 10-May-2018). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
4
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
William King MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432379
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Harned.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
Before I am able to proceed with a revised manuscript the following MUST be done by the
author:
The issue of authorship MUST be addressed. This can be done by including the previous
supervisor as one of the authors (with appropriate affiliations(s)). If this route is chosen, a
statement of consent from the supervisor must be included as well. Alternatively, the author list
can be left as is, but a statement from the supervisor stating that they agree to being left off the
author list must be supplied.
Note that a statement from the previous supervisor MUST be included in both scenarios. This can
be included either as an letter signed by the supervisor uploaded to ScholarOne as an additional
file, or in the form of an email to chemistryopenscience@rsc.org from the supervisor’s academic
email address. We will be unable to proceed further on this manuscript until this statement of
consent is received.
In addition the the concerns raised by the referees, I have a few additional comments:
I disagree with reviewer #2 regarding the use of NMR as an indication of purity. This is very
commonly done with organic compounds. While somewhat more analytical NMR techniques are
needed in order to achieve an accurate measure of purity, my inspection of the provided 1H
NMR spectra suggests purity is not an issue here. Also, when predicting (calculating) MS data it
is best to use the same formula as that for the "found" mass.
For example, if the found mass is M+Na, then Na must be included in the calculated formula.
5
Supply references for all known compounds if MS data is not being included.
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This manuscript describes the formation of a series of diketopyperazines derived from protected
cysteine and their application to silver ions chelation.
The paper has been already modified after a previous submission and now it may be published
after some minor revisions listed below.
- The graphical abstract is too full, so it is not clear which isomer gives each CD spectrum. The
authors should semplify it.
- I have not fully understood which information can be obtained by NOESY experiments. The
cross peak between NH and CHa do not give any confirmation of the stereochemistry in my
opinion, so the authors should explain the results that have been obtained.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a review of a manuscript describing the preparation of cyclic amino acid dimers of
protected cysteine.
Whilst the authors have corrected the majority of the issues raised previously. However, it is
noted that some of the compounds still does not satisfy the standard required for compound
identification and purity analysis. In addition, the author should note that NMR spectroscopy is
a method of identification and does not satisfy purity requirements; the latter requires elemental
analysis or similar.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180272.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180272.R1)
14-May-2018
Dear Dr Zhang:
Title: A facile synthesis of cysteine-based diketopiperazine from thiol-protected precursor
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180272.R1
6
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
William King MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432379
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Harned.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
The lead author has done a good job of responding to the comments raised by the previous
reviewers. Perhaps more importantly, the issue of authorship has been addressed. I am
comfortable recommending publication at this time.
Appendix A
Dear Editors and Reviewers:
Thank you for your kind letter and I really appreciate your favorite consideration concerning our
manuscript entitled “A facile synthesis of cysteine-based diketopiperazine from thiol-protected
precursor” (Manuscript ID: RSOS-180272). We have studied the comments carefully and made
corrections. These comments are all valuable for improving our paper and helpful for our future
research. Here below is our description on revision according to the comments:
Responses to the editor’s comments:
Comment 1: The issue of authorship MUST be addressed.
Response: Thanks for your valuable advice. According to your suggestion, I have added my previous
supervisor, Zhiyuan (Wayne) Wang, as the corresponding co-author. The statement of consent from
him has been signed and uploaded to our system as Review File.
Comment 2: When predicting (calculating) MS data it is best to use the same formula as that for the
"found" mass.
Response: Thank you for your instructive suggestions. We have made corrections according to your
suggestions. It is really true as the editor suggested that it is more formal to use the same formula as
that for the "found" mass. And it is really helpful for my future research as well.
Comment 3: Supply references for all known compounds if MS data is not being included.
Response: Thank you for your careful reading of our manuscript. For known compound 1a and 1b,
we have added ref. 12 and ref. 13, respectively. These two paper contain the preparations and structure
identifications for compound 1a and 1b.
Special thanks to you for your valuable and helpful comments.
Responses to the reviewer’s comments:
Reviewer 1
Comment 1: The graphical abstract is too full, so it is not clear which isomer gives each CD spectrum.
The authors should simplify it.
Response: Thank you for pointing out the problem for the graphic abstract. As you suggested, the
graphic should give the reader a quick visual impression of the essence of the manuscript. It should be
informative and simple. Therefore, we have simplified our graphic abstract to make sure it can capture
the reader’s attention.
Comment 2: The cross peak between NH and CHa in NOESY do not give any confirmation of the
stereochemistry, so the authors should explain the results that have been obtained.
Response: Thank you for careful reading of our manuscript and we are sorry for unclear description
for the NOESY results. It has been reported that DKP ring could exist in a flat or a slightly puckered
boat or chair conformation. Moreover, the cis-isomer is normally existing in twist-boat conformation,
while trans-isomer prefers a planar ring. (1-3) Since DKP conformations can be identified by NOESY
measurements. Therefore, we did NOESY tests to further confirm the distribution of stereochemistry.
16.5% 9.1%
Figure 1. Twist-boat conformation of cis-DKP and planar conformations of trans-DKP.3
It has been known that the cross peak signals in NOESY spectra are useful for determining which
signals arise from protons that are close to each other in space. Besides, in some cases, stereochemistry
information can be directly achieved from NOESY spectra.4 Thus, we performed the NOESY
measurement first. However, the NOESY spectra of compound-2a do not give significant differences
in our work, which only display that the proton of NH correlates with the a-proton. Considering that
nuclear Overhauser effect (NOE) test is a useful NMR experiment to aid the structure assignments and
has been widely used to identify DKP conformations, we further did NOE tests.5 In our work, by
irradiating the a-proton only, a 16.5% NOE on NH was observed for the cis-isomer and 9.1% NOE
was registered for the trans-isomer by irradiating the a-proton only. Because the signal enhancement
for cis-isomer is more remarkable compared to the one in trans-isomer. It indicates that these two
protons in cis-isomer is much closer. This result is accordance with the speculation that cis-isomer
normally exists in a twist boat conformation, which further supports our stereochemistry distribution
(Figure 1). Indeed, we also tried to prove the DKP conformation by X-ray diffraction method.
Unfortunately, the single crystals grew in various organic solvents we got were too small to be observe.
We have made corrections according to your suggestions which is marked in red color in main
content. Besides, we added more references to support our analysis. Thanks for your advice.
References:
1. L. Pérez-Picaso, J. Escalante, H. F. Olivo, M. Y. Rios, Molecules, 2009, 14, 2836.
2. C. Prasad, Peptides, 1995, 16, 151.
3. C. Eguchi, A. Kakuta, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1974, 96, 3985.
4. X. Li, K. H. Hopmann, J. Hudecová, J. Isaksson, J. Novotná, W. Stensen, V. Andrushchenko, M.
Urbanová, J. S. Svendsen, P. Bour, K. Ruud, J. Phys. Chem. A. 2013, 117, 1721.
5. G. Porzi, S. Sandri, Tetrahedron: Asymmetry, 1994, 5, 454.
Special thanks to you for your valuable and helpful comments.
Reviewer 2
Comment: Some of the compounds still does not satisfy the standard required for compound
identification and purity analysis. The author should note that NMR spectroscopy is a method of
identification and does not satisfy purity requirements; the latter requires elemental analysis or
similar.
Response: Thank you for these precious comments and suggestions. In most of the DKP-related
literatures, NMR techniques are applied for compound identifications (H. Wang, T. Usui, H. Osada,
A. Ganesan, J. Med. Chem. 2000, 43, 1577; P. Gockel, R. Vogler, M. Gelinsky, A. Meißner, H. Albrich,
H. Vahrenkamp, Inorganica Chimica. Acta., 2001, 323, 16; D. Iannotta, N. Castellucci, M. Magda, C.
Tomasini, Tetrahedron Lett. 2010, 51, 4558). Therefore, in our work, we mainly applied NMR and
Mass techniques to identify our compounds. For the known compound 1a and 1b, we compared our
NMR and Mass results with literature values to identify the structures (Ref. 12 and 13). For compound
1c to 1e, since the functional groups are exact same as compound 1a and 1b, and only the lengths of
alkyl side-chains are different, the compounds can be easily identified by comparing the chemical
shifts in NMR spectra with those in compound 1a and 1b. Besides, the identifications of compound 1c
to 1e were further confirmed by Mass spectra. For compound 2a, we not only compared our 1H NMR
results with literature values, but also compared the 1H NMR, 13 C NMR, COSY, NOESY and Mass
results with other DKPs (Ref. 18-27). Since compound 2b to 2e have exact same as compound 2a and
only the lengths of alkyl side-chains are different, the compounds can be easily identified by comparing
the chemical shifts in NMR spectra with those in compound 2a. Besides, the structures were further
identified by Mass spectra.
In terms of the purity problems, thank you for your suggestions that elemental analysis may better
reveal the purity and the measurements we have may not be optimal, but it should be sufficient to
draw the conclusion that our compounds are pure. During the synthesis process, we did
recrystallizations for almost all of the compounds to ensure their purities. To prove the purity, we
mainly use NMR, Mass and melting point tests as indications of purity. It has been known that the
purified compounds have narrow melting ranges. Since the melting point ranges of the obtained
compounds are stable and less than 2 oC, it was assumed that the collected compounds are pure.
Moreover, NMR is a common method to prove the purity (Bharti, S. K.; Roy, R. Quantitative 1H
NMR spectroscopy. TrAC Trends in Analytical Chemistry, 2012, 35, 5; Dreier, L.; Wider, G.
Concentration measurements by PULCON using X-filtered or 2D NMR spectra. Magn. Reson.
Chem., 2006, 44, S206). In NMR spectra, the arrangements of protons and carbons, and the
integrations of protons are consistent with the structures of the compounds. Thus, it was assumed
that the collected compounds are pure. Furthermore, the molecular mass and fragmentation patterns
in Mass spectra are accordance with the structure analysis, which further confirms the purities.
Thank you again for your suggestions and helpful. In our future researches, we will definitely pay
more attention to apply elemental analysis as the purity proof. Special thanks to you for your
valuable and helpful comments.
We tried our best to improve the manuscript and made changes in the manuscript. We appreciate the
Editors and Reviewers’ warm work earnestly, and hope the correction will meet with approval.
Thanks again for your comments and I really appreciate your consideration.
Di Zhang
Email: zhangdi0801@live.cn
Society Open
