Modelling the emergence of rodent filial huddling from
physiological huddling
Stuart P. Wilson
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170885.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170885
Review timeline
Original submission: 11 July 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 5 October 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 24 October 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170885.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Mauricio Canals)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a very interesting paper that through models proposes to explain the transition of the
huddling behavior from thermal keys to odoriferous keys. It intends to visualize if the contact
during the early development when the activities of the BAT is high could give origin to the
olfactory keys that would persist in the adulthood.
I have several concerns with this article:
1.- The title is not very informative and somewhat contradictory to the reader: "Social
thermoregulation as a conversion from energy to entropy to information"
I do not think it represents the spirit of the paper in question.
2.- The paper is difficult to to follow. I think the author need to explain more clearly in the text
the logic behind the models.
2.1.- The results in the section “Metabolism as the Entropy of BAT Energy Consumption” are
clear and understandable.
2.2.- The adjustment proposed in the section: “Behavioral Thermoregulation as a Competition
between Fat and Muscle”, however I cannot find a clear logical reasoning and in the opinion of
this reviewer seems to be more an arbitrary adjustment.
3.- Several aspects are based on the adjustment to the data of reference [26], which decreases the
generality of the model. There are several other metabolism studies of Mus sp in huddling during
ontogeny that should be reviewed.
3.1 The proposed change at day 15 of development seems somewhat precocious and I think it is
rather a hypothesis that should be corroborated experimentally.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Interesting study and well written ms, but it needs a strong background in thermodynamics for
its quality to be fully assessed.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This manuscript uses a computational model to explain why filial huddling persists into
adulthood, ultimately concluding that associative learning among rodent littermates maintains
social thermoregulation. While the manuscript is otherwise well-written, there are many parts
that are confusing. I have listed these out below:
1. The manuscript is extremely short. Though I appreciate that the manuscript gets right to the
point, it would help if author structured a proper theoretical framework using published
literature beyond that of the rodent (specifically mice and rats) study model. In addition to
Gilbert et al. (2010 – Biological Reviews), Terrien et al. (2011 – Frontiers in Bioscience) provides an
excellent review of behavioral thermoregulation studies that could be used to expand and
strengthen both the Introduction and Discussion.
2. Building on the previous comment, the manuscript is not arranged so as to be a hypothesis-
driven study. Instead, the aim is rather exploratory, whereas it would be very helpful for the
reader if specific hypotheses/predictions were written out.
3. Why is there no Methods section? It appears that some of what is provided in the Results is
actually Methods. Specifically, the author should describe in detail the data set used in the
analyses, and what statistical software (R?), packages, etc. were used to create and run the
models.
4
4. The Results section follows a circuitous/circumstantial route to establish the theoretical basis
for the various model results. Oddly, this section is also littered with background information
and references for support, which is very confusing. Why are references being used in the Results
section? Simply stick to your results in the Results section and use the Discussion to expand upon
your findings and compare with other model systems, which it currently is lacking. Again, many
models have been used to explore the topic of social thermoregulation, restricting the Discussion
to only rats/mice studies limits the overall scope and findings of the manuscript.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170885)
07-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Wilson,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Social thermoregulation as a conversion from energy to
entropy to information") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to
revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 30-Sep-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
5
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170885
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
I concur with the reviewers in several key respects. I think the manuscript would be much more
6
accessible to a broad audience if it were introduced in a broader conceptual framework and
perhaps a broader taxonomic framework (e.g., newborn snakes are known to 'huddle' for
thermoregulatory purposes, etc.). I understand that the model is rather specific to mice and rats
but, I also think the general approach that you've taken, which is very interesting, can be applied
relatively easily in other taxa (given the appropriate parameters are available to populate the
model). I also think that it'll be important to describe key thermodynamic terms that might not
be familiar to a broad audience. Setting up the manuscript in a hypothesis-driven way, with a
clear Methods section (as indicated by Reviewer #3) would also help to increase accessibility.
Other comments from the AE:
In general, I would recommend labeling the equations, e.g. S = -kPlnP (Equation 1).
Please provide line numbers on the revised manuscript.
Background section: You refer to psychological development but, its not really clear what you
mean. The development of social behavior?
2nd equation of the Results section: Does this entropy equation assume that each state (amount of
BAT = P?) is equiprobable? If there is age-dependent mortality (e.g., between days 0 to 35),
would this necessarily be the case?
Final paragraph of the "Behavioural Thermoregulation...." section and Figure 1D: Here, you
discuss competition between BAT and non-muscle metabolism for behavioural thermoregulation.
While the curve fitted for Tp-T2 seems justified, I don't see how the curve for Tp-T1 has much
support, especially the asymptote. Can you provide details on this?
Final paragraph in "Associative Value...." section: You say that animals spent more time
investigating when they were exposed and tested on postnatal day 8. However, on Figure 2B, I
see that 8-day old animals spent LESS time investigating. Clarify this?
Last equation in the manuscript: Please explain the final term in the model associated with the
"sum" symbol. Is this some sort of cost associated with interactions between 'a' and any other
animal? Or the summed strengths of association between 'a' and everyone else in the group?
General comment: From my perspective, it makes sense that if you add a reward structure to the
model, animals will continue to do what they've been doing (huddling) because the probability of
exhibiting the behavior should increase with 'r'. From a conceptual standpoint, the fact that
learning allows for the persistence of huddling into adulthood is really interesting. My concern is
that, from a modeling standpoint, this seems like the only outcome. Are there alternative
outcomes? This is something that I think would be great to flesh out (especially for the non-
modelers, like myself).
Discussion - about 3/4 of the way down the first paragraph. You say "ectothermy...makes it
highly resistant to a cold environment". What is meant by "resistant"? Is it true that newborn
rodents can resist cold?
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This is a very interesting paper that through models proposes to explain the transition of the
huddling behavior from thermal keys to odoriferous keys. It intends to visualize if the contact
7
during the early development when the activities of the BAT is high could give origin to the
olfactory keys that would persist in the adulthood.
I have several concerns with this article:
1.- The title is not very informative and somewhat contradictory to the reader: "Social
thermoregulation as a conversion from energy to entropy to information"
I do not think it represents the spirit of the paper in question.
2.- The paper is difficult to to follow. I think the author need to explain more clearly in the text
the logic behind the models.
2.1.- The results in the section “Metabolism as the Entropy of BAT Energy Consumption” are
clear and understandable.
2.2.- The adjustment proposed in the section: “Behavioral Thermoregulation as a Competition
between Fat and Muscle”, however I cannot find a clear logical reasoning and in the opinion of
this reviewer seems to be more an arbitrary adjustment.
3.- Several aspects are based on the adjustment to the data of reference [26], which decreases the
generality of the model. There are several other metabolism studies of Mus sp in huddling during
ontogeny that should be reviewed.
3.1 The proposed change at day 15 of development seems somewhat precocious and I think it is
rather a hypothesis that should be corroborated experimentally.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
interesting study and well written ms, but it needs a strong background in thermodynamics for
its quality to be fully assessed.
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
This manuscript uses a computational model to explain why filial huddling persists into
adulthood, ultimately concluding that associative learning among rodent littermates maintains
social thermoregulation. While the manuscript is otherwise well-written, there are many parts
that are confusing. I have listed these out below:
1.The manuscript is extremely short. Though I appreciate that the manuscript gets right to the
point, it would help if author structured a proper theoretical framework using published
literature beyond that of the rodent (specifically mice and rats) study model. In addition to
Gilbert et al. (2010 – Biological Reviews), Terrien et al. (2011 – Frontiers in Bioscience) provides an
excellent review of behavioral thermoregulation studies that could be used to expand and
strengthen both the Introduction and Discussion.
2. Building on the previous comment, the manuscript is not arranged so as to be a hypothesis-
driven study. Instead, the aim is rather exploratory, whereas it would be very helpful for the
reader if specific hypotheses/predictions were written out.
3. Why is there no Methods section? It appears that some of what is provided in the Results is
actually Methods. Specifically, the author should describe in detail the data set used in the
8
analyses, and what statistical software (R?), packages, etc. were used to create and run the
models.
4. The Results section follows a circuitous/circumstantial route to establish the theoretical basis
for the various model results. Oddly, this section is also littered with background information
and references for support, which is very confusing. Why are references being used in the Results
section? Simply stick to your results in the Results section and use the Discussion to expand upon
your findings and compare with other model systems, which it currently is lacking. Again, many
models have been used to explore the topic of social thermoregulation, restricting the Discussion
to only rats/mice studies limits the overall scope and findings of the manuscript.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170885)
See Appendices A & B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170885.R1)
24-Oct-2017
Dear Dr Wilson,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Modelling the emergence of rodent
filial huddling from physiological huddling" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
9
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
This is a very impressive revision! The author addressed all of my concerns, and I think the
manuscript is now highly accessible to a general audience, and is placed in a framework that will
get folks generally interested in social thermoregulation quite excited. The model is now much
more explicitly laid out, from a conceptual standpoint, and I think its digestibility has
skyrocketed relative to the original version. I would like to thank the author for spending what
surely must have been many, many hours to put this revision together.
I found only one minor issue that I feel can be dealt with at the proofing state:
Line 69: Change "oxytosin" to "oxytocin"
Appendix A
Response to Referees
I have numbered each of the original reviewer comments in parentheses, e.g., [1.], but
otherwise all comments are reproduced exactly below and appear as blue text. My specific
responses appear after each point, in black text. For reference, I have also included a version
of the revised manuscript text with blue text indicating where changes have been made.
Associate Editor's comments:
[1.] I concur with the reviewers in several key respects. I think the manuscript would be
much more accessible to a broad audience if it were introduced in a broader conceptual
framework and perhaps a broader taxonomic framework (e.g., newborn snakes are known to
huddle' for thermoregulatory purposes, etc.). I understand that the model is rather specific to
mice and rats but, I also think the general approach that you've taken, which is very
interesting, can be applied relatively easily in other taxa (given the appropriate parameters are
available to populate the model).
I am very grateful to the three reviewers, and in particular to the Associate Editor for the time
taken to evaluate the paper.
The extensively revised introduction now contextualises the work in a broader taxonomic
framework, introducing the topic by direct reference to specific examples of social
thermoregulation in honeybees, snakes, penguins, bats, rats, mice, rabbits, degus, lemurs,
hamsters, voles, bonobos, and chimpanzees.
Please refer in particular to the opening paragraph of the revised Introduction:
“Social thermoregulation has been described in social insects, reptiles, birds, and mammals,
including humans. For example, honeybee swarms cluster to form structures whose surface
density varies with the environment temperature, maintaining the porous core at thermal
homeostasis [1]. Common garter snakes in Canada have been found to hibernate in dens
comprising 8000 animals for up to a third of the year during winter [2]. Emperor penguins
aggregate at a density of up to ten birds per square meter, adapting the overall shape of the
huddle to weather cold winds [3]. Bats huddle to compensate for poor insulation in forest
roosting sites, and huddling is important for the initiation and maintenance of group
cohesion during collective roost-switching behaviours [4]. Other rodents, including mice [5],
rats [6], rabbits [7], and degus [8], huddle to insulate from the cold, by collectively reducing
the exposed surface area to volume ratio of the group [9, 10]. And social thermoregulation in
primates (bamboo lemurs) has recently been shown to be more important for temperature
homeostasis than the choice of resting site [11].”
And later in the revised Introduction;
“Individual differences in early huddling can be explained in terms of individual differences
in thermal physiology, for example sex differences in rat huddling can be understood by
considering females, who are born with more BAT, as heat sources and males as heat sinks
[36]. Syrian golden hamsters, which start to produce heat by BAT-thermogenesis relatively
late in postnatal development, will initiate huddling behaviours when introduced into groups
of age-matched rats, who are generating heat via BAT at this age [27, 26]. In turn, early
individual differences in huddling behaviours have been shown to predict metrics of adult
social behaviour. For example, rabbit pups that tend to occupy peripheral versus central
positions in the huddle during the first postnatal week are more likely to jump a gap to attend
to the cries of a distressed littermate when tested as adults ([30]; see also [31, 32, 33]). In
similar terms, social thermoregulation is thought to confer in a number species, human-like
social behaviours [34, 35], such as the ‘contact comfort’ offered in consolation to distressed
conspecifics by prairie voles [36], bonobos [37], and chimpanzees [38].”
[2.] I also think that it'll be important to describe key thermodynamic terms that might not be
familiar to a broad audience.
I have reorganised the manuscript to include a new distinct methods section (titled
“Models”). This re-organization places the description of huddling thermodynamics first
following the Introduction, and thus should follow more clearly from the (expanded)
description of huddling thermodynamics in the revised Introduction. In the new Models
section, I have presented the thermodynamic (Monte Carlo) algorithm in more detail, first in
conceptual terms which emphasises that the underlying algorithm is very simple (i.e.,
iteratively join groups selected at random or split them up, by comparing a huddling
probability with a random number many times), before then expanding to provide a more
formal account. The opening paragraph of the new Models section reads:
“A Monte Carlo algorithm has recently been shown to capture the statistics of huddling
behaviour [20], i.e., the distribution of groups of pups in contact, as predicted by more
elaborate models of the underlying physical interactions between littermates (see [18, 19,
47]). The idea is to iteratively reconfigure the distribution of pups between groups by
choosing pairs of pups at random from the litter and either joining together the groups to
which they belong, or isolating one from its group. The decision between these two
alternatives is made by comparing a randomly generated number each time to a value
representing the probability that those two pups will remain in contact. If the random number
is less than the probability of remaining in contact, then the groups to which the two pups
belong are joined together to form a larger group, else one pup is isolated to form a new
group of size one. In this way, a higher probability makes larger huddles more likely to form.
More precisely, the huddling algorithm involves iteratively selecting a pup at random, a, then
selecting a second pup at random from a different group, b, and then […]
[…]
Predicting how huddling statistics change over developmental time thus requires a definition
of how T, which determines the likelihood of two groups joining to form a larger huddle,
changes as the thermal physiology matures.”
The re-organisation around a new Models section separates what is now Equation 1 from
what is now Equation 10, which helps the narrative, and allows revisions to the surrounding
text to make clear the distinction between thermodynamic (Eq 1) and associative learning (Eq
10) components of the model.
The first section of the revised Results now provides a brief (informal) explanation of entropy
via the intuitive example of water freezing, which should help equip readers unfamiliar with
the concept of entropy to follow the first paragraph of the Discussion more easily (please see
response to point 7 for details).
Also, to help readers appreciate the usefulness of a thermodynamic approach to
(physiological) huddling, I have provided in the revised Introduction a reference to earlier
models in which behavioural observations of huddling have been successfully modelled in
terms of thermodynamic concepts:
“These thermodynamic models have been used to explain a phase transition in mouse
huddling behaviours, from aggregation in cold environments to dispersion at warmer
temperatures [5, 18], and by analogy with particle systems they generate new predictions,
such as a temperature-dependent peak in ‘pup flow’, where animals cycle between the cold
huddle periphery and its warm core [6, 20].”
Together with an expanded explanation of why the model predicts the persistence of huddling
into adulthood in the Discussion (see response to point 10), the revised manuscript now
introduces key thermodynamic concepts in more mechanistic terms, at a pace and level of
abstraction that I hope you will agree is appropriate for the broad readership of Royal Society
Open Science.
[3.] Setting up the manuscript in a hypothesis-driven way, with a clear Methods section (as
indicated by Reviewer #3) would also help to increase accessibility.
In addition to the new Models section, extensive revisions to the Introduction and Discussion
now develop a clear hypothesis-driven narrative. Please refer in particular to two new
paragraphs at the end of the revised Introduction:
“A central theme in these discussions is that neural systems which evolved under selection
pressure to allow animals to react to thermal stimuli, to help minimize the energetic costs of
physiological thermoregulation, have since been supplanted by more elaborate (presumably
neocortical) circuitry that enables animals to predict the thermal consequences of contact
with conspecifics [41]. The idea has recently been developed further by Morrison (2016),
who proposes that “[Neural] pathways involved in social thermoregulation may have
evolved to use conspecific touch patterns as shorthand for ‘warm and close’. [...Such]
temporal and contextual shorthand may manifest in regulatory neural shortcuts in which
‘warm and close’ states can be instigated by social touch alone, rather than requiring a cycle
of behaviorally-mediated physical warmth restoration following actual temperature
decreases.” [42]. Essentially, the neural substrate of social thermoregulation may provide a
scaffold for the emergence of non-thermal social behaviours. In rodents, this may occur
during postnatal development, as odour-heat conditioning between huddling littermates
replaces the physiological drive for huddling with a drive based on the strength of
association to olfactory cues.
To make explicit these assumptions about the role of odour-heat conditioning in social
thermoregulation, and to test the idea that social thermoregulation can provide a scaffold for
the development of non- thermal social behaviours, the current study presents a model […]”
The revised Discussion picks this up further with the following additional paragraphs:
“The results of adding odour-heat conditioning to the model of [20] provides a parsimonious
explanation for the persistence of rodent filial huddling into adulthood, confirming the
intuitions of several researchers (e.g., [35, 42, 41]). Eq. 10 makes explicit the distinction
between reactive behaviour (i.e., physiological huddling with all a = 1; Fig. 3A, ‘control’)
and predictive behaviour (i.e., filial huddling based on a learnt distribution of a values
amongst littermates; Fig. 3A, ‘learning’). More detailed models of associative learning are
expected to yield qualitatively similar results.
Beyond the a priori prediction that odour-heat conditioning might lead to the persistence of
huddling into adulthood, the additional prediction that associative strengths amongst the
litter can develop to be increasingly positive or negative was not anticipated, although the
effect is simple to understand post hoc. Once two pups have developed […]”
Other comments from the AE:
[4.] In general, I would recommend labeling the equations, e.g. S = -kPlnP (Equation 1).
All equations have now been numbered.
[5.] Please provide line numbers on the revised manuscript.
Please accept my apologies. Line numbers have now been included throughout the revised
manuscript.
[6.] Background section: You refer to psychological development but, its not really clear
what you mean. The development of social behavior?
The revised Introduction explains more precisely what is meant by psychological
development. Specifically, I have expanded the text here to draw a distinction between
reactive and predictive social behaviours, as is the basis of the theoretical treatment of
attachment theory in primates by reference 34:
“In turn, early individual differences in huddling behaviours have been shown to predict
metrics of adult social behaviour. For example, rabbit pups that tend to occupy peripheral
versus central positions in the huddle during the first postnatal week are more likely to jump
a gap to attend to the cries of a distressed littermate when tested as adults ([30]; see also
[31, 32, 33]). In similar terms, social thermoregulation is thought to confer in a number
species, human-like social behaviours [34, 35], such as the ‘contact comfort’ offered in
consolation to distressed conspecifics by prairie voles [36], bonobos [37], and chimpanzees
[38] […]”
“Emerging theories of social thermoregulation in primates are beginning to extrapolate from
the data on rodent huddling to explain how complex human psychological concepts, such as
the establishment of distinct attachment styles, and the formation of internal models for
social behaviour, may be supported by the same neural systems that regulate huddling
behaviours in rats and mice [34] […]”
[7.] 2nd equation of the Results section: Does this entropy equation assume that each state
(amount of BAT = P?) is equiprobable? If there is age-dependent mortality (e.g., between
days 0 to 35), would this necessarily be the case?
This is an interesting question. The Editor is correct that the amount of BAT is modelled as
the quantity P in the paper. As shown in Figure 1A, P reduces exponentially over
developmental time, as the energy in fat stored at birth is converted into heat. Under the
interpretation provided in the new paragraph at the end of the first Results paragraph, the
entropy equation does implicitly assume that each state is equiprobable. However, as
explained in the new text (below), the interpretation is that over time, a decrease in the
number of possible (equiprobable) sates means that order is increasing:
“Entropy is a measure of disorder, describing the number of different configurations of a
system that are possible. Only in open systems can entropy decrease, i.e., in systems that
exchange matter with the surrounding environment. From day 8, Fig. 1 shows a decrease in
the entropy (per unit mass) that relates the amount of BAT to the rate of metabolism. This
suggests that as the mouse uses energy stored in BAT, and exchanges matter with its
environment via respiration, the number of possible states of the brown fat tissue decreases
from day 8. Intuitively, the effect is similar to the way that water molecules become more
ordered when they freeze to create ice.”
The idea that age-dependent mortality might influence which physiological states are more
likely to occur is very interesting. This is closely related to a question that I addressed in a
recent evolutionary model of huddling (Wilson, 2017, PLoS Comp. Biol.), where the
influence of huddling on the evolution of thermal physiology was explored using an
evolutionary algorithm which penalises thermal physiologies unable to exploit the benefits of
huddling. Combining these two (evolutionary and developmental) approaches together will
likely be the focus of my next modelling study. But answering this question fully, interesting
though it is, is tangential to the research question of the present paper. Please note that the
data used to inform the present model were collected under conditions (i.e., ambient
temperatures, standard laboratory housing etc.) under which age-dependent mortality was not
reported to be a factor.
[8.] Final paragraph of the "Behavioural Thermoregulation...." section and Figure 1D: Here,
you discuss competition between BAT and non-muscle metabolism for behavioural
thermoregulation. While the curve fitted for Tp-T2 seems justified, I don't see how the curve
for Tp-T1 has much support, especially the asymptote. Can you provide details on this?
Fig 2B (originally Fig 1D) shows that prior to around day 8, animals choose ambient
temperatures that exceed the typical adult body temperature of 36°C. The curve fitted to Tp-
T2 by definition cannot exceed 36°C, hence an additional system (curve) is required to
explain these early data-points. The curve described by Tp+T1, including the asymptote, is
simply a re-scaled version of the curve for BAT depletion as in Figure 1A (i.e., T1 is
proportional to P), hence this curve represents the assumption that the amount of available
BAT determines the degree to which ambient temperatures in excess of 36°C will be
preferred. In support of the claim that T1 and T2 are derived from separate thermal systems, I
include below (my reproduction of) Figure 10 from reference 49, which shows a distinction
between the development of BAT (i.e., parameter P in the expression for T1), whose activity
decreases towards an asymptote at around postnatal day 8, and the development of other
thermal systems whose activity increases from around day 8 onwards, which I hope clarifies
this point for the Editor.
cold resistance
thermo-orthokinesis
brown fat / g
brown fat activity
adrenaline in adrenals
metabolic response to adrenaline
thyroid colloid
liver activity
muscle shivering
0 10 20 30
days
To the end of this Results section I have added the clarification:
“Compared with the dominance of BAT in determining the preferred temperature in the first
few postnatal days, the later dominance of other thermoregulatory systems represented by T2
may correspond also with increases in e.g., liver, thyroid, and adrenal activity [49].”
[9.] Final paragraph in "Associative Value...." section: You say that animals spent more time
investigating when they were exposed and tested on postnatal day 8. However, on Figure 2B,
I see that 8-day old animals spent LESS time investigating. Clarify this?
Yes, the Editor is absolutely right here, and I apologise for the mistake. The error here is
confined to the wording of that particular sentence, and once corrected has no consequence
for the interpretation of the model or the modelling results.
To clarify, Bollen et al. (2012) report that from day 3 to 6 and from day 6 to 8, animals spend
an increasing proportion of a 1-minute testing session orienting from a neutral zone towards
the warmer of two chambers, heated to either 26 or 33°C. Treating these data as a baseline, a
separate experiment found that brief exposure to a novel odour in a 33°C chamber led to an
increased time orienting towards that odour (from a choice of two) in a 24°C chamber on
postnatal day 6, compared to baseline time orienting to an odour to which the animal had
been exposed at 26°C. At day 7/8, the time spent orienting towards the odour paired with
warmth was approximately baseline, but the time orienting towards the odour paired with
cold was reduced. Comparing a further increase in time orienting towards the warm-paired
odour, and a further decrease in time orienting to the cold-paired odour at day 10, to an
extrapolation of the increasing baseline orienting duration, suggests that levels of positive
association to warmth and negative association to cold become comparable. These data are
consistent with a model in which odour-heat conditioning is driven primarily by positive
association to warmth at day 6, primarily by negative association to cold at day 7/8, and by
equal levels of positive or negative association to warmth or cold respectively thereafter. This
is in turn consistent with the model presented, according to which changes in the associative
strength are predominately positive until postnatal day 8, at which point positive versus
negative associations are predicted to bifurcate.
In preparing this clarification for the rebuttal, careful re-examination of Bollen et al. (2012)
suggests that inclusion of these data may be more distracting than helpful in the paper.
Although the trends in these data are consistent with the modelling results and underlying
assumptions, the analyses presented in this study were designed to test a different hypothesis.
As such, the differences in baseline exploration times with developmental age were reported
not to be statistically significant as a consequence (I suspect) of the original choice of
statistical test, and the original study was not designed in a such a way as to establish a
baseline exploration time at day 10.
Whereas construction of the model requires providing an account of the Lagerspetz and Eedy
and Ogilvie datasets, i.e., to establish how the preferred temperature changes over time, the
account of the model for the trends in the Bollen et al. (2012) data are essentially post-hoc. At
the request to present a hypothesis-driven narrative, presentation of this post-hoc account of
the Bollen et al. data is difficult to reconcile with the revised structure of the paper. I have
therefore decided to include in the revision a clear reference to the study and the potential of
this model to be used to interpret similar datasets collected in future experiments of this kind,
but to remove the potentially confusing figures 2A and 2B and associated text from the
revision. The remaining reference to Bollen et al. (2012) in the revision reads:
“This prediction could in principle be tested by measuring the changing preferences of
animals, at thermoneutral temperatures, to huddle with surrogate objects scented with
different littermate odours in a forced-choice experimental setup. In similar setups using
artificial odours, rats have been shown to spend more time on postnatal day 6 exploring
odours recently paired with the experience of warmth, whereas on days 7 and 8 rats spend
less time exploring an odour paired with the experience of cold, compared to baseline times
spent exploring the warmer of two odour-neutral locations [44].”
[10.] Last equation in the manuscript: Please explain the final term in the model associated
with the "sum" symbol. Is this some sort of cost associated with interactions between 'a' and
any other animal? Or the summed strengths of association between 'a' and everyone else in
the group?
The final term in this equation (Eq 10 in the revision) is indeed the sum of the associative
strengths a between pup a and every other pup in the litter, i.e., a summation over associative
strengths, not over costs. To make this clearer, I have moved what was originally the
penultimate equation to make it now Equation 1 in the Models section, and removed a from
this equation. This allows a to instead be introduced into the re-formulation of the
temperature T itself, via new Equation 9. To be clear, the model is identical, but presenting it
this way makes clearer the distinction between huddling based on thermodynamics (Equation
1) and huddling based also on associative strengths (By redefining T in Equation 9 to include
a). As a result, in the new context in which it appears, the following explanation of a should
be clearer:
“To model how pups learn from huddling interactions, each is assumed to maintain a
strength of association a for the odour of each of its littermates. The thermodynamic
temperature parameter T is then weighted at each timestep by the strength of association of
pup b for the odour of pup a.”
By way of providing a more detailed explanation of the Results, the revised Discussion also
now elaborates further on the role of the learnable associative strengths, with direct reference
to the relevance of the summation:
“For example, two pups that expect to maintain contact (a > 0) but do not, will adjust a to
predict that future contacts are unlikely to be maintained (<U+2206>a < 0), and in doing so reduce
the probability of maintaining future contacts. Steady increases or steady decreases in
associative strength between pups (Fig. 3B) thus reflect an amplification of early individual
differences between them, and result from closing the loop between behaviour (Eq. 1) and
learning (Eq. 10). By driving the summation term in Eq. 10 towards binary values of r, the
overall associative strengths amongst the group remain bounded, thus enforcing a
competition where pairwise increases and decreases in associative strength are balanced.”
[11.] General comment: From my perspective, it makes sense that if you add a reward
structure to the model, animals will continue to do what they've been doing (huddling)
because the probability of exhibiting the behavior should increase with 'r'. From a conceptual
standpoint, the fact that learning allows for the persistence of huddling into adulthood is
really interesting. My concern is that, from a modeling standpoint, this seems like the only
outcome. Are there alternative outcomes? This is something that I think would be great to
flesh out (especially for the non-modelers, like myself).
Thank you for this considerate comment, and I am pleased to see that you find this result
interesting. I agree that it is important to clarify the usefulness of constructing models to
capture observed data, and to decouple modelling assumptions from predictions. I hope you
will agree that the revision of the Introduction to present a hypothesis-driven narrative goes
some way to addressing this. For example, after presenting the general idea that the neural
substrate for social thermoregulation may provide a scaffold for the development of non-
thermal social behaviour, with reference to the ideas presented informally by e.g., Morrison
(2016) and Alberts (2007), the Introduction has been revised to include an additional
paragraph that makes clear how modelling can play a role in formulating and testing the
underlying assumptions of such theories:
“[…] the current study presents a model, based on the thermodynamic description of rodent
huddling by [20], which predicts how huddling behaviours should change over time as BAT
physiology matures in litters of mice. The model is then extended to ask how odour-heat
conditioning during contact in the huddle shapes the emergent group behaviour. The model
is calibrated to data on the development of thermal physiology and individual thermal
behaviour in mice, and thus it may be used to generate testable predictions about the
developmental timecourse of the emergence of social behaviour.”
I have then fleshed out this part of the narrative further in the revised Discussion;
“More detailed models of associative learning are expected to yield qualitatively similar
results.
Beyond the a priori prediction that odour-heat conditioning might lead to the persistence of
huddling into adulthood, the additional prediction that associative strengths amongst the
litter can develop to be increasingly positive or negative was not anticipated, although the
effect is simple to understand post hoc. Once two pups have developed a moderate
association, an early contact that by chance results in a surprising outcome will lead to an
adjustment in association that makes that predicted outcome less likely to result from future
encounters. For example, two pups that […]
These dynamics demonstrate the usefulness of computational modelling as a tool for teasing
out the predictions of how even simple systems behave when learning is allowed to interact
with behaviour. The new prediction in this case, is that while associative learning enables
huddling to persist into adulthood, individuals will become increasingly selective in their
choice of huddling partners. This prediction could in principle be tested by measuring the
changing preferences of animals, at thermoneutral temperatures, to huddle with surrogate
objects scented with different littermate odours in a forced-choice experimental setup. “
[12.] Discussion - about 3/4 of the way down the first paragraph. You say
"ectothermy...makes it highly resistant to a cold environment". What is meant by "resistant"?
Is it true that newborn rodents can resist cold?
I have elaborated this sentence as follows: “Ectothermy in the newborn makes it highly
resistant to a cold environment, for example neonatal mice can recover from hypothermia at
0°C whereas adults cannot [49].” For the Editor’s interest, I include here a short excerpt
from reference 49, which I hope will reassure you of the accuracy of this statement.
“Two hundred young mice of different ages up to 27 days were subjected to cold environment
(TA -10°C) for varying periods (Lagerspetz, 1962). After their TB had attained the desired
level, recovery of the animals was attempted simply by placing them again in a warm
environment. It was found that mice aged less than 5 days could be recovered from much
lower TBs (about 0°C) than older ones. The cold resistance seemed to undergo a
development between the ages of 5 and 16 to 18 days. At the age of 18 days the mice survived
a hypothermia with TB of about 9°C, which also is the critical level for adults.
The results show that young mice which have poor thermoregulation withstand much lower
TBs than older animals whose thermoregulation is more effective. The high cold resistance of
newborn mice might be caused by the relative insensitivity of their immature central nervous
system to hypoxia or to other changes which are caused by deep hypothermia. On the other
hand, there might be such systems present in the newborn mice which effectively counteract
the hypothermia at vital loci. The importance of the brown adipose tissue in the heat
production of the young (Dawkins & Hull 1964) must be taken into account in the
interpretation of the high cold resistance in the newborn mice.”
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
[1.] This is a very interesting paper that through models proposes to explain the transition of
the huddling behavior from thermal keys to odoriferous keys. It intends to visualize if the
contact during the early development when the activities of the BAT is high could give origin
to the olfactory keys that would persist in the adulthood.
Thank you to reviewer 1 for this positive response to the paper. I am happy that you have
found the paper to be interesting, and I confirm that the summary provided here is accurate.
I have several concerns with this article:
[2.] 1.- The title is not very informative and somewhat contradictory to the reader: "Social
thermoregulation as a conversion from energy to entropy to information" I do not think it
represents the spirit of the paper in question.
The title has been revised as follows: “Modelling the emergence of rodent filial huddling
from physiological huddling”, which I hope the Reviewer will agree is a better fit given the
expansion and re-organisation of the narrative.
[3.] 2.- The paper is difficult to to follow. I think the author need to explain more clearly in
the text the logic behind the models.
As explained in response to the Editor’s comments above, I have substantially revised the
Introduction and Discussion, and included a new methods section (titled “Models”), which I
hope provides a clearer presentation of the logic of the work, and in particular makes a
clearer distinction between the a priori modelling assumptions and its predictions.
[4.] 2.1.- The results in the section “Metabolism as the Entropy of BAT Energy
Consumption” are clear and understandable.
I thank the Reviewer for this comment. I have added a paragraph to the end of this section to
help address other points raised by the Editor, but otherwise this section has not been edited.
[5.] 2.2.- The adjustment proposed in the section: “Behavioral Thermoregulation as a
Competition between Fat and Muscle”, however I cannot find a clear logical reasoning and
in the opinion of this reviewer seems to be more an arbitrary adjustment.
Please see my response to Editor's comment [9.], which explains why I have essentially
removed the reference to the data of Bollen et al. (21012). Based on this and other comments
it was too much of a stretch in logic to offer a post hoc interpretation of these data. I hope that
it is clear from the explanation above that in the original submission this was an extended
application of the model to an extra dataset, rather than a critical requirement for the
construction of the model.
[6.] 3.- Several aspects are based on the adjustment to the data of reference [26], which
decreases the generality of the model. There are several other metabolism studies of Mus sp
in huddling during ontogeny that should be reviewed.
I accept this point. Anchoring the model to a specific dataset from a particular species limits
its generality. However, the flip-side is that calibrating the model to a specific dataset allows
specific, testable, quantitative predictions to be generated from the model, e.g., predicting the
specific day from which associative cues are a stronger driver than thermal cues for huddling.
To justify the focus on reference [26] (reference 48 in the revision), I have added the
following to the new Models section:
“Although studies of the developing thermal physiology of mice are numerous, few have
quantified the relationship between the maturing thermal physiology and the development of
thermal behaviour in the same animals and under the same experimental conditions. The
basis of the model is therefore a dataset published by Eedy & Ogilvie [48], which describes,
for the same set of mice, how the body mass, the mass-specific metabolic rate, and crucially
the preferred ambient temperature of the animals, changes across the first 60 postnatal
days.”
The revision includes 18 additional references, and include references 9,10,12, and 13 which
together provide an overview of mouse thermal physiology.
[7.] 3.1 -The proposed change at day 15 of development seems somewhat precocious and I
think it is rather a hypothesis that should be corroborated experimentally.
In retrospect, the original was vague about this. I have now clarified in the Discussion as
follows…
“Day 15 represents a landmark in the development of rat social thermoregulation. […] An
important test of the model will be to establish whether day 15 is also a landmark in the
development of mouse social behaviour.”
Reviewer: 2
[1.] interesting study and well written ms, but it needs a strong background in
thermodynamics for its quality to be fully assessed.
Thank you to Reviewer 2 for taking the time to evaluate the paper. I hope that the edits have
made the paper more accessible to a broader audience.
Reviewer: 3
This manuscript uses a computational model to explain why filial huddling persists into
adulthood, ultimately concluding that associative learning among rodent littermates maintains
social thermoregulation. While the manuscript is otherwise well-written, there are many parts
that are confusing. I have listed these out below:
[1.] 1.The manuscript is extremely short. Though I appreciate that the manuscript gets right to
the point, it would help if author structured a proper theoretical framework using published
literature beyond that of the rodent (specifically mice and rats) study model. In addition to
Gilbert et al. (2010 – Biological Reviews), Terrien et al. (2011 – Frontiers in Bioscience)
provides an excellent review of behavioral thermoregulation studies that could be used to
expand and strengthen both the Introduction and Discussion.
The original submission was approximately 2000 words. With the substantially revised
Introduction, Discussion, and re-organisation around a distinct Models section, the revision is
now approximately 4000 words.
Thank you to Reviewer 3 for the excellent suggested references, which are now cited. In
total, the revision includes 18 new references. Please also see my detailed response to point 1
by the Editor, detailing how I have broadened out the theoretical context of the paper in the
revised Introduction to include a full presentation of social thermoregulation in the context of
a broad range of species.
[2.] 2. Building on the previous comment, the manuscript is not arranged so as to be a
hypothesis-driven study. Instead, the aim is rather exploratory, whereas it would be very
helpful for the reader if specific hypotheses/predictions were written out.
This point from Reviewer 3 was highlighted by the Editor, and my full response to it is
included under Editor point 3 above. To repeat the most direct statement of the hypothesis
from the revised Introduction:
“[…] the neural substrate of social thermoregulation may provide a scaffold for the
development of non-thermal social behaviours. In rodents, this may occur during postnatal
development, as odour-heat conditioning between huddling littermates replaces the
physiological drive for huddling with a drive based on the strength of association to olfactory
cues.”
And the most direct statement of the predictions appears in the revised Discussion as follows:
“Beyond the a priori prediction that odour-heat conditioning might lead to the persistence of
huddling into adulthood, the additional prediction that associative strengths amongst the
litter can develop to be increasingly positive or negative was not anticipated, although the
effect is simple to understand post hoc.”
“The new prediction in this case, is that while associative learning enables huddling to
persist into adulthood, individuals will become increasingly selective in their choice of
huddling partners. This prediction could in principle be tested by measuring the changing
preferences of animals, at thermoneutral temperatures, to huddle with surrogate objects
scented with different littermate odours in a forced-choice experimental setup.”
“An important test of the model will be to establish whether day 15 is also a landmark in the
development of mouse social behaviour.”
[3.] 3. Why is there no Methods section? It appears that some of what is provided in the
Results is actually Methods. Specifically, the author should describe in detail the data set
used in the analyses, and what statistical software (R?), packages, etc. were used to create and
run the models.
The revision now includes a distinct Methods section (titled “Models”), which includes the
clarification:
“Although studies of the developing thermal physiology of mice are numerous, few have
quantified the relationship between the maturing thermal physiology and the development of
thermal behaviour in the same animals and under the same experimental conditions. The
basis of the model is therefore a dataset published by Eedy & Ogilvie [48], which describes,
for the same set of mice, how the body mass, the mass-specific metabolic rate, and crucially
the preferred temperature selected by the animals on a thermocline, changes across the first
60 postnatal days. In that study, animals were briefly isolated from the huddle on successive
days and placed on a thermocline, i.e., an apparatus in which temperature varies
continuously from hot on one side to cold on the other. The recorded temperature of the
location at which the animals settled is referred to herein as the preferred ambient
temperature.
The next section shows how, together with existing data describing changes in mouse BAT
over a similar period [49], the preferred ambient temperature of developing mice can be
related to the changing thermal physiology, and thus how the physiological drive towards
huddling, T, develops.”
The new Models section ends with a clear statement of how the model is implemented. The
model was written in c++ for efficiency, with some simple scripts written in python used for
plotting. Please note that all code required to re-generate the figures is included in full in the
Supplement. Apologies if the submission system does not make the Supplementary Materials
available to the Reviewers:
“A full implementation of the model in c++ is included as Supplementary Material S1,
together with a script, written in Python, to extract and display the changing huddling
statistics, i.e., the average group size predicted on each postnatal day.”
[4.] 4. The Results section follows a circuitous/circumstantial route to establish the
theoretical basis for the various model results. Oddly, this section is also littered with
background information and references for support, which is very confusing. Why are
references being used in the Results section? Simply stick to your results in the Results
section and use the Discussion to expand upon your findings and compare with other model
systems, which it currently is lacking. Again, many models have been used to explore the
topic of social thermoregulation, restricting the Discussion to only rats/mice studies limits the
overall scope and findings of the manuscript.
As explained in detail in response to the Editors comments, the paper has been substantially
revised to address this comment. I thank Reviewer 3 sincerely for the suggested re-
organisation, and I hope you will agree that making these edits has lead to a substantially
improved paper.
Appendix B
Modelling the emergence of rodent filial huddling
from physiological huddling
Stuart P. Wilson1,2*
1 Department of Psychology, The University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom
2 Sheffield Robotics, The University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom
* Corresponding author
Email: S.P.Wilson@Sheffield.ac.uk
1 Abstract
2 Huddling behaviour in neonatal rodents reduces the metabolic costs of physiological thermoregulation.
3 However, animals continue to huddle into adulthood, at ambient temperatures where they are able to
4 sustain a basal metabolism in isolation from the huddle. This ‘filial huddling’ in older animals is known
5 to be guided by olfactory rather than thermal cues. The present study aimed to test whether thermally
6 rewarding contacts between young mice, experienced when thermogenesis in brown adipose fat tissue
7 (BAT) is highest, could give rise to olfactory preferences that persist as filial huddling interactions in
8 adults. To this end, a simple model was constructed to fit existing data on the development of mouse
9 thermal physiology and behaviour. The form of the model that emerged yields a remarkable explana-
0 tion for filial huddling; associative learning maintains huddling into adulthood via processes that reduce
1 thermodynamic entropy from BAT-metabolism and increase information about social ordering amongst
2 littermates.
3 keywords: thermoregulation, self-organisation, metabolism, entropy, huddling, BAT.
4 Introduction
5 Social thermoregulation has been described in social insects, reptiles, birds, and mammals, including
6 humans. For example, honeybee swarms cluster to form structures whose surface density varies with
7 the environment temperature, maintaining the porous core at thermal homeostasis [1]. Common garter
8 snakes in Canada have been found to hibernate in dens comprising 8000 animals for up to a third of the
9 year during winter [2]. Emperor penguins aggregate at a density of up to ten birds per square meter,
0 adapting the overall shape of the huddle to weather cold winds [3]. Bats huddle to compensate for poor
1 insulation in forest roosting sites, and huddling is important for the initiation and maintenance of group
2 cohesion during collective roost-switching behaviours [4]. Other rodents, including mice [5], rats [6],
3 rabbits [7], and degus [8], huddle to insulate from the cold, by collectively reducing the exposed surface
4 area to volume ratio of the group [9, 10]. And social thermoregulation in primates (bamboo lemurs) has
5 recently been shown to be more important for temperature homeostasis than the choice of resting site
6 [11].
7 The huddling behaviour of laboratory rodents, in particular rats and mice, has emerged as a model system
8 for the study of social thermoregulation. This is due to their prevalence as laboratory species, and to the
9 precision with which the thermal physiology of these species has been investigated [12, 13]. A number
0 of agent-based computer models [14, 15, 16, 17, 5, 18, 8, 19, 20] have been formulated to describe how
1 rodent huddling behaviours at the level of the group emerge from simple rules of interaction between
2 individuals [21, 6, 5, 22].
3 The individual behaviour from which rodent huddling emerges has been described formally as ‘homeother-
4 motaxis’; turning in the direction that brings the body temperature closer to a preferred temperature
5 [18, 19]. As such, individuals act like the magnetic spins in an Ising model, or the particles in a Vicsek
6 model from statistical physics, attracted or repelled by the relative body temperatures of their littermates
7 [20]. These thermodynamic models have been used to explain a phase transition in mouse huddling be-
8 haviours, from aggregation in cold environments to dispersion at warmer temperatures [5, 18], and by
9 analogy with particle systems they generate new predictions, such as a temperature-dependent peak in
0 ‘pup flow’, where animals cycle between the cold huddle periphery and its warm core [6, 20].
1 Central to thermodynamic descriptions of huddling is a role for brown adipose fat tissue (BAT), which
2 evolved as the organ of thermogenesis in early mammals [23, 24], and has been shown to be a requirement
3 for the emergence of huddling [25, 26, 27, 28]. Individual differences in early huddling can be explained
4 in terms of individual differences in thermal physiology, for example sex differences in rat huddling can
5 be understood by considering females, who are born with more BAT, as heat sources and males as heat
6 sinks [29]. Syrian golden hamsters, which start to produce heat by BAT-thermogenesis relatively late
7 in postnatal development, will initiate huddling behaviours when introduced into groups of age-matched
8 rats, who are generating heat via BAT at this age [27, 26]. In turn, early individual differences in huddling
9 behaviours have been shown to predict metrics of adult social behaviour. For example, rabbit pups that
0 tend to occupy peripheral versus central positions in the huddle during the first postnatal week are more
1 likely to jump a gap to attend to the cries of a distressed littermate when tested as adults ([30]; see
2 also [31, 32, 33]). In similar terms, social thermoregulation is thought to confer in a number species,
3 human-like social behaviours [34, 35], such as the ‘contact comfort’ offered in consolation to distressed
4 conspecifics by prairie voles [36], bonobos [37], and chimpanzees [38].
5 As precocial mammals develop, maximal energy in BAT stores at birth decay, as does the drive towards
6 huddling based on physiological demands [39, 26, 24, 40, 6]. However, rodents continue to huddle
7 into adulthood, and the transition from physiological huddling to ‘filial huddling’ is characterized by a
8 preference for (even cool) objects whose odours have been associated with a warm soft touch [39, 6, 41,
9 42, 43, 44]. According to Alberts (1984): “The olfactory-perceptual preferences that direct and maintain
0 social contact (huddling) behavior in rat pups are established by the association of olfactory cues with
1 the thermotactile stimulation present during mother-litter interactions. The induction of odor preferences
2 that guide affiliative social behavior are not susceptible to other reinforcers such as suckling rewards.”
3 [45]. Thus, associative learning, and in particular odour-heat conditioning, is thought to play a primary
4 role in the emergence of rodent social behaviour.
5 Emerging theories of social thermoregulation in primates are beginning to extrapolate from the data on
6 rodent huddling to explain how complex human psychological concepts, such as the establishment of
7 distinct attachment styles, and the formation of internal models for social behaviour, may be supported
8 by the same neural systems that regulate huddling behaviours in rats and mice [34], such as hypothalamic
9 circuitry and oxytosin regulation [46, 6, 35]. A central theme in these discussions is that neural systems
0 which evolved under selection pressure to allow animals to react to thermal stimuli, to help minimize
1 the energetic costs of physiological thermoregulation, have since been supplanted by more elaborate
2 (presumably neocortical) circuitry that enables animals to predict the thermal consequences of contact
3 with conspecifics [34]. The idea has recently been developed further by Morrison (2016), who proposes
4 that “[Neural] pathways involved in social thermoregulation may have evolved to use conspecific touch
5 patterns as shorthand for ‘warm and close’. [. . . Such] temporal and contextual shorthand may manifest
6 in regulatory neural shortcuts in which ‘warm and close’ states can be instigated by social touch alone,
7 rather than requiring a cycle of behaviorally-mediated physical warmth restoration following actual tem-
8 perature decreases.” [35]. Essentially, the neural substrate of social thermoregulation may provide a
9 scaffold for the emergence of non-thermal social behaviours. In rodents, this may occur during postnatal
0 development, as odour-heat conditioning between huddling littermates replaces the physiological drive
1 for huddling with a drive based on the strength of association to olfactory cues.
2 To make explicit these assumptions about the role of odour-heat conditioning in social thermoregulation,
3 and to test the idea that social thermoregulation can provide a scaffold for the development of non-
4 thermal social behaviours, the current study presents a model, based on the thermodynamic description
5 of rodent huddling by [20], which predicts how huddling behaviours should change over time as BAT
6 physiology matures in litters of mice. The model is then extended to ask how odour-heat conditioning
7 during contact in the huddle shapes the emergent group behaviour. The model is calibrated to data on the
8 development of thermal physiology and individual thermal behaviour in mice, and thus it may be used to
9 generate testable predictions about the developmental timecourse of the emergence of social behaviour.
0 Models
1 A Monte Carlo algorithm has recently been shown to capture the statistics of huddling behaviour [20],
2 i.e., the distribution of groups of pups in contact, as predicted by more elaborate models of the underlying
3 physical interactions between littermates (see [18, 19, 47]). The idea is to iteratively reconfigure the
4 distribution of pups between groups by choosing pairs of pups at random from the litter and either joining
5 together the groups to which they belong, or isolating one from its group. The decision between these two
6 alternatives is made by comparing a randomly generated number each time to a value representing the
7 probability that those two pups will remain in contact. If the random number is less than the probability
8 of remaining in contact, then the groups to which the two pups belong are joined together to form a larger
9 group, else one pup is isolated to form a new group of size one. In this way, a higher probability makes
0 larger huddles more likely to form.
1 More precisely, the huddling algorithm involves iteratively selecting a pup at random, a, then selecting
2 a second pup at random from a different group, b, and then either joining together the groups to which
3 pups a and b belong with probability <U+03C1>a,b , or detaching a from its group to form a new group of size 1,
4 where
-1
<U+03C1>a,b = 1 + e-T , (1)
5 and the threshold T is referred to as the ‘temperature parameter’. Predicting how huddling statistics
6 change over developmental time thus requires a definition of how T , which determines the likelihood of
7 two groups joining to form a larger huddle, changes as the thermal physiology matures.
8 Although studies of the developing thermal physiology of mice are numerous, few have quantified the
9 relationship between the maturing thermal physiology and the development of thermal behaviour in
0 the same animals and under the same experimental conditions. The basis of the model is therefore a
1 dataset published by Eedy & Ogilvie [48], which describes, for the same set of mice, how the body
2 mass, the mass-specific metabolic rate, and crucially the preferred ambient temperature of the animals,
3 changes across the first 60 postnatal days. In that study, animals were briefly isolated from the huddle on
4 successive days and placed on a thermocline, i.e., an apparatus in which temperature varies continuously
5 from hot on one side to cold on the other. The recorded temperature of the location at which the animals
6 settled is referred to herein as the preferred ambient temperature.
7 The next section shows how, together with existing data describing changes in mouse BAT over a similar
8 period [49], the preferred ambient temperature of developing mice can be related to the changing thermal
9 physiology, and thus how the physiological drive towards huddling, T , develops. To investigate the
0 transition from physiological to filial huddling, the data of [49] and [48] were first approximated by a
1 series of simple expressions to estimate the preferred ambient temperature T , then values of T were fed
2 through the huddling model (Eq. 1) to predict how group sizes change during postnatal development.
3 Corresponding to a ‘no-learning’ control condition, the algorithm begins with n = 7 pups joined in a
4 single group, and then evaluates Eq. 1 many thousands of times, comparing <U+03C1>a,b to a random number
5 between 0 and 1 each time to determine the reconfiguration of the pups between subgroups, while T
6 changes according to the fit to the preferred ambient temperature measured by [48]. Corresponding to
7 the main ‘learning’ condition, the same procedure is repeated, using an associative learning rule to adapt
8 a set of associative strengths between pups, and in turn to weight T by these associative strengths, on
9 each iteration. This extension is detailed in the final Results section, and represents the ability of animals
0 to learn, by odour-heat conditioning, to predict the outcome of future contacts.
1 A full implementation of the model in c++ is included as Supplementary Material S1, together with a
2 script, written in Python, to extract and display the changing huddling statistics, i.e., the average group
3 size predicted on each postnatal day.
4 Results
5 Metabolism as the Entropy of BAT Energy Consumption
6 The points p plotted in Fig. 1A show the weights of brown adipose fat tissue (BAT), as a percentage
7 of the body weight, as measured in mice at different ages by [49]. Using the first (p1 ) and final (p0 )
8 measurements to define p0 = (p - p0 )/(p1 - p0 ), the re-scaled points p0 were well approximated by an
9 exponential decay,
P = e-t/k , (2)
0 with k a time constant describing the rate of depletion of BAT reserves.
1 Fig. 1B shows the mass-specific metabolic rate (converted to calories per gram per hour) reported by
2 [48], and a fit to these data by G, defined as,
S = -kP ln P, (3)
G = k(1 + S), (4)
3 where the unit term corresponds to the basal metabolic rate, and S is the entropy associated with P . As
4 such, k is a unit of energy, and the fit obtained using k = 8.31 ascribes particular significance to k as the
5 universal gas constant [50]. Thus the mass-specific metabolic rate is proposed to be the thermodynamic
6 entropy generated by the conversion of energy that is stored in BAT at birth.
7 Entropy is a measure of disorder, describing the number of different configurations of a system that are
8 possible. Only in open systems can entropy decrease, i.e., in systems that exchange matter with the
9 surrounding environment. From day 8, Fig. 1 shows a decrease in the entropy (per unit mass) that relates
0 the amount of BAT to the rate of metabolism. This suggests that as the mouse uses energy stored in BAT,
1 and exchanges matter with its environment via respiration, the number of possible states of the brown
2 fat tissue decreases from day 8. Intuitively, the effect is similar to the way that water molecules become
3 more ordered when they freeze to create ice.
4 Behavioural Thermoregulation as a Competition Between Fat and Muscle
5 The growth curves of mice typically display an initial rise (of decreasing magnitude) followed by the
6 more familiar sigmoidal shape that is often modelled as a logistic/autocatalytic function (e.g., [51, 52,
7 53]; see Supplementary Fig. S2.). Fig. 2A shows that the growth curves measured by [48] are well
8 described as sums of two quantities,
M = k(1 - P ), (5)
W = M + ce-kT1 , (6)
9 where c = 19 is a constant (see Supplementary Fig. S2), and T1 is a temperature.
0 Viewed in terms of the growth rates, the growth curve comprises a mass M that is driven towards a
1 saturating value of k by dM/dt = k - M , and a second mass N = W - M which increases with M
2 at a rate that decreases as M <U+2192> k, according to dN/dM <U+221D> N . The initial rise in N occurs at around
3 postnatal day 15, which for mice coincides with a rapid development of muscle shivering as a response
4 to cold challenge [49]. The quantity M is thus interpreted to be the muscle mass and the quantity N is
5 therefore referred to as the non-muscle mass.
6 The temperatures selected by the developing mice (when isolated) on a thermocline, as recorded by [48],
7 are shown in Fig. 2B. Selected temperatures could also be approximated by a combination of two curves,
8 when added to a ‘target’ adult body temperature assumed to be Tp ˜ 36<U+25E6> C:
T1 <U+221D> P, (7)
T2 <U+221D> GN, (8)
9 where the constants of proportionality were estimated as c1 = 3, and c2 = 0.025 respectively.
0 On each postnatal day, the animals appear to select either Tp +T1 or Tp -T2 , suggesting that thermoregu-
1 latory systems based on BAT energy metabolism (responsible for T1 ) and total (non-muscle) metabolism
2 (responsible for T2 ) are in competition for behavioural thermoregulation. Compared with the dominance
3 of BAT in determining the preferred temperature in the first few postnatal days, the later dominance of
4 other thermoregulatory systems represented by T2 may correspond with increases in e.g., liver, thyroid,
5 and adrenal activity [49].
6 From Physiological Huddling to Filial Huddling
7 The Monte Carlo method developed by [20] (Eq. 1) can be used to translate T1 and T2 into a prediction
8 of how the mean group size varies with age as the physiology matures from ectothermy to endothermy,
9 using T <U+221D> T1 - T2 . Fig. 3A (light trace) confirms that huddling (average group size) is predicted to
0 decrease as the preferred temperature falls.
1 To model how pups learn from huddling interactions, each is assumed to maintain a strength of asso-
2 ciation a for the odour of each of its littermates. The thermodynamic temperature parameter T is then
3 weighted at each timestep by the strength of association of pup b for the odour of pup a,
T = ab,a (T1 - T2 ) ß, (9)
4 where ß = 0.2 is an arbitrary scaling constant. Note that in the control condition, where huddling
5 interactions are determined only by the maturing physiology, a = 1 for all strengths of association.
6 The Delta rule from animal learning theory [54] can then be used to modify these associative strengths,
7 treating each simulated encounter between a and b as a conditioning trial. On each iteration of the
8 huddling algorithm, the strength of association of pup a for the odour of pup b, aa,b , is updated to better
9 predict whether future contacts between them will be maintained,
<U+F8EB> <U+F8F6>
X
<U+2206>aa,b = <U+03B3> <U+F8ED>r - aa,i <U+F8F8> , (10)
i6=a
0 where the reward is r = 1 whenever the groups of a and b are combined or r = 0 otherwise, and the
1 learning rate is set to <U+03B3> = 0.001.
2 Fig. 3A (heavy trace) shows that when littermates can learn to predict the outcome of huddling interac-
3 tions, large huddles persist into adulthood, with larger huddles predicted from around day 15 in litter-
4 mates able to learn compared to non-learning controls. Fig. 3B shows the associative strengths learnt by
5 an arbitrary pup, which grow to an early peak for all littermates, but thereafter increasingly discriminate
6 amongst the littermates. The development of two associative strengths are highlighted, showing how lit-
7 termates can learn strong positive or negative associations to oneanother. This emergent heterogeneity of
8 preferences for maintaining contacts with specific littermates may constitute the basis of a rudimentary
9 social system.
0 Discussion
1 The quantities and expressions derived in modelling the data of [48] and [49] suggest the following about
2 the development of the thermal physiology and behaviour of the mouse. Mice are born with maximum
3 BAT stores, which decrease exponentially over time as P = e-t/k , as is the typical profile for a precocial
4 mammal [23]. From birth, mice accumulate body mass by a process that converts between fat and muscle,
5 such that muscle mass increases as M = k(1 - P ). As such, the unit of energy k may be interpreted
6 as a conversion factor between the (mass-specific) energy stored in fat tissue and the (absolute) muscle
7 mass. The energy released in the conversion between fat and muscle is reflected by a spike in the entropy
8 of BAT, measured as a peak in the mass-specific metabolic rate, i.e., the oxygen consumption. This
9 spike is similar to the fluctuation in entropy (or heat capacity) measured by physicists during a Schottky
0 anomaly (see [50, 55]), or as occurs when an open system undergoes a transition from a low-energy
1 ground-state to a steady-state of higher energy [56]. Here, the ground state corresponds to ectothermy,
2 and the transition is to the higher-energy thermal physiology associated with endothermy. Ectothermy in
3 the newborn makes it highly resistant to a cold environment, for example neonatal mice can recover from
4 hypothermia at 0<U+25E6> C whereas adults cannot [49]. However, the later transition to endothermy, through a
5 peak in entropy, is required in order for the adult to sustain a higher energy metabolism; In the words
6 of Erwin Schrodinger “. . . the higher temperature of the warm-blooded animal includes the advantage of
7 enabling it to get rid of its entropy at a quicker rate, so that it can afford a more intense life process.”
8 [57].
9 The results of adding odour-heat conditioning to the model of [20] provides a parsimonious explana-
0 tion for the persistence of rodent filial huddling into adulthood, confirming the intuitions of several
1 researchers (e.g., [45, 35, 34]). Eq. 10 makes explicit the distinction between reactive behaviour (i.e.,
2 physiological huddling with all a = 1; Fig. 3A, ‘control’) and predictive behaviour (i.e., filial huddling
3 based on a learnt distribution of a values amongst littermates; Fig. 3A, ‘learning’). More detailed models
4 of associative learning are expected to yield qualitatively similar results.
5 Beyond the a priori prediction that odour-heat conditioning might lead to the persistence of huddling
6 into adulthood, the additional prediction that associative strengths amongst the litter can develop to be
7 increasingly positive or negative was not anticipated, although the effect is simple to understand post
8 hoc. Once two pups have developed a moderate association, an early contact that by chance results in a
9 surprising outcome will lead to an adjustment in association that makes that predicted outcome less likely
0 to result from future encounters. For example, two pups that expect to maintain contact (a > 0) but do
1 not, will adjust a to predict that future contacts are unlikely to be maintained (<U+2206>a < 0), and in doing so
2 reduce the probability of maintaining future contacts. Steady increases or steady decreases in associative
3 strength between pups (Fig. 3B) thus reflect an amplification of early individual differences between
4 them, and result from closing the loop between behaviour (Eq. 1) and learning (Eq. 10). By driving the
5 summation term in Eq. 10 towards binary values of r, the overall associative strengths amongst the group
6 remain bounded, thus enforcing a competition where pairwise increases and decreases in associative
7 strength are balanced. The net effect is a steady-state in which the system remains poised in a critical
8 regime (<U+03C1> ˜ 0.5).
9 These dynamics demonstrate the usefulness of computational modelling as a tool for teasing out the
0 predictions of how even simple systems behave when learning is allowed to interact with behaviour. The
1 new prediction in this case, is that while associative learning enables huddling to persist into adulthood,
2 individuals will become increasingly selective in their choice of huddling partners. This prediction could
3 in principle be tested by measuring the changing preferences of animals, at thermoneutral temperatures,
4 to huddle with surrogate objects scented with different littermate odours in a forced-choice experimental
5 setup. In similar setups using artificial odours, rats have been shown to spend more time on postnatal
6 day 6 exploring odours recently paired with the experience of warmth, whereas on days 7 and 8 rats
7 spend less time exploring an odour paired with the experience of cold, compared to baseline times spent
8 exploring the warmer of two odour-neutral locations [44].
9 Filial huddling preferences can be induced by exposure to novel odours when paired with soft contacts
0 and/or warm environments (rather than food [58]). The efficacy with which the association between
1 odour and a warm soft touch can induce filial responses increases from birth [59] during the first two
2 postnatal weeks [41], affecting huddling behaviours until around day 15 [45]. Consistent with these
3 data, the point at which the two traces in Fig. 3A intersect defines a transition from physiological to filial
4 huddling, i.e., at around postnatal day 15.
5 Day 15 represents a landmark in the development of rat social thermoregulation. Preferences measured
6 in rats on day 15 can be induced by a single 2-hour exposure at postnatal day 14 to a scented object
7 other than the mother, only if it is both warm and soft (consistent with the definition of r), suggesting
8 that a combination of the thermal and tactile properties of a contact determine its valence as a reward
9 for odour conditioning. The emergence of filial huddling shown in Fig. 3A is thus consistent with the
0 general finding that preferences for conspecifics are stronger for older (15-20 days) animals than younger
1 animals (5-10 days), and are disrupted in older animals to a greater extent by blocking olfaction (e.g.,
2 by intranasal infusion of zinc sulphate) [39]. An important test of the model will be to establish whether
3 day 15 is also a landmark in the development of mouse social behaviour.
4 According to the model, mechanisms of classical conditioning, which presumably involve the pre-optic
5 region of the hypothalamus [60, 61, 23, 24, 46, 62] and the olfactory bulb [39], adjust the relative
6 strengths of association to the smells of littermates to better predict the thermal consequences of huddling
7 encounters. As a result, huddling levels are maintained into adulthood, despite a decline in the imme-
8 diate energetic benefits to huddling. In the process, the thermodynamic entropy is essentially converted
9 into an information-theoretic entropy, storing amongst the relative strengths of association, information
0 about the history of rewarding and non-rewarding thermotactile experiences between littermates. This
1 information represents a potential template for an adult social system in which animals prefer to interact
2 with certain others.
3 Ethics
4 The computational modelling study presented in this article raises no ethical issues.
5 Data accessibility
6 The datasets supporting this article have been uploaded as part of the supplementary material.
7 Competing Interests
8 I have no competing interests.
9 Acknowledgements
0 The author is grateful to Hannes Saal and Tony Prescott at the Univeristy of Sheffield and Paul Wilson at
1 the University of Hull for useful discussions.
2 Funding statement
3 The research presented here was not funded by a particular sponsor.
4 References
5 [1] Ocko SA, Mahadevan L (2014) Collective thermoregulation in bee clusters. J R Soc Interface 11:
6 20131033.
7 [2] Gregory PT (1984) Communal denning in snakes. In: et al IS, editor, Contributions to vertebrate
8 ecology and systematics: A tribute to Henry S. Fitch., Museum of Natural History. pp. 57-75.
9 [3] Waters A, Blanchette F, Kim AD (2012) Modeling huddling penguins. PLoS ONE 7(11): e50277.
0 [4] Russo D, Cistrone L, Budinski I, Console G, Della Corte M, et al. (2017) Sociality influences
1 thermoregulation and roost switching in a forest bat using ephemeral roosts. Ecology and Evolution
2 7: 5310–5321.
3 [5] Canals M, Bozinovic F (2011) Huddling behavior as critical phase transition triggered by low tem-
4 peratures. Complexity 17: 35–43.
5 [6] Alberts JR (2007) Huddling by rat pups: ontogeny of individual and group behavior. Developmental
6 Psychobiology 49: 22–32.
7 [7] Rdel HG, Von Holst D, Kraus C (2009) Family legacies: short- and long-term fitness consequences
8 of early-life conditions in female european rabbits. Journal of Animal Ecology 78: 789–797.
9 [8] Sanchez ER, Solis R, Torres-Contreras H, Canals M (2015) Self-organization in the dynamics of
0 huddling behavior in Octodon degus in two contrasting seasons. Behav Ecol Sociolbiol 69(5):
1 787-794.
2 [9] Canals M, Rosenmann M, Bozinovic F (1989) Energetics and geometry of huddling in small mam-
3 mals. Journal of Theoretical Biology 141: 181–189.
4 [10] Terrien J, Perret M, Aujard F (2011) Behavioral thermoregulation in mammals: A review. Frontiers
5 in Bioscience, Landmark 16: 1428–1444.
6 [11] Eppley TM, Watzek J, Dausmann KH, Ganzhorn JU, Donati G (2017) Huddling is more important
7 than rest site selection for thermoregulation in southern bamboo lemurs. Animal Behaviour 127:
8 153 - 161.
9 [12] Gordon CJ (1990) Thermal biology of the laboratory rat. Physiology & behavior 47: 963–991.
0 [13] Gordon CJ (2012) Thermal physiology of laboratory mice: Defining thermoneutrality. Journal of
1 Thermal Biology 37: 654-685.
2 [14] Schank JC, Alberts JR (1997) Self-organized huddles of rat pups modeled by simple rules of indi-
3 vidual behavior. Journal of Theoretical Biology 189: 11–25.
4 [15] Schank JC, Alberts JR (2000) The developmental emergence of coupled activity as cooperative
5 aggregation in rat pups. Proc Biol Sci 267: 2307–2315.
6 [16] Schank JC (2008) The development of locomotor kinematics in neonatal rats: an agent-based mod-
7 eling analysis in group and individual contexts. J Theor Biol 254: 826–842.
8 [17] May CJ, Schank JC, Joshi S (2011) Modelling the influence of morphology on the movement
9 ecology of groups of infant rats (rattus norvegicus). Adaptive Behavior 19(4): 280-291.
0 [18] Glancy J, Gross R, J S, Wilson SP (2015) A self-organising model of thermoregulatory huddling.
1 PLoS Computational Biology 11(9): e1004283.
2 [19] Glancy J, Stone JV, Wilson SP (2016) How self-organization can guide evolution. Royal Society
3 Open Science 3: 160553.
4 [20] Wilson SP (2017) Self-organised criticality in the evolution of a thermodynamic model of rodent
5 thermoregulatory huddling. PLOS Computational Biology 13: 1-22.
6 [21] Alberts JR (1978) Huddling by rat pups: multisensory control of contact behavior. Journal of
7 comparative and physiological psychology 92: 220–230.
8 [22] Alberts JR (2012) Observe, simplify, titrate, model, and synthesize: a paradigm for analyzing
9 behavior. Behav Brain Res 231: 250–261.
0 [23] Cannon B, Nedergaard J (2004) Brown adipose tissue: function and physiological significance.
1 Physiological reviews 84: 277–359.
2 [24] Morrison SF (2004) Central pathways controlling brown adipose tissue thermogenesis. News Phys-
3 iol Sci 19: 67–74.
4 [25] Sokoloff G, Blumberg MS (2001) Competition and cooperation among huddling infant rats. Dev
5 Psychobiol 39: 65–75.
6 [26] Sokoloff G, Blumberg MS (2002) Contributions of endothermy to huddling behavior in infant Nor-
7 way rats (Rattus norvegicus) and Syrian golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). Journal of Com-
8 parative Psychology 116: 240–246.
9 [27] Blumberg MS (1997) Ontogeny of cardiac rate regulation and brown fat thermogenesis in golden
0 hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). Journal of Comparative Physiology B, Biochemical, Systemic,
1 and Environmental Physiology 167: 552–557.
2 [28] Haig D (2008) Huddling: brown fat, genomic imprinting and the warm inner glow. Curr Biol 18:
3 R172–R174.
4 [29] Harshaw C, Culligan JJ, Alberts JR (2014) Sex differences in thermogenesis structure behavior and
5 contact within huddles of infant mice. PLoS One 9: e87405.
6 [30] Reyes-Meza V, Hudson R, Martnez-Gmez M, Nicols L, Rdel HG, et al. (2011) Possible contribution
7 of position in the litter huddle to long-term differences in behavioral style in the domestic rabbit.
8 Physiol Behav 104: 778–785.
9 [31] Rodel HG, Meyer S (2011) Early development influences ontogeny of personality types in young
0 laboratory rats. Dev Psychobiol 53: 601–613.
1 [32] Hudson R, Bautista A, Reyes-Meza V, Montor JM, Rodel HG (2011) The effect of siblings on early
2 development: A potential contributor to personality differences in mammals. Dev Psychobiol 53:
3 564–574.
4 [33] Bautista A, Zepeda JA, Reyes-Meza V, Fron C, Rdel HG, et al. (2017) Body mass modulates hud-
5 dling dynamics and body temperature profiles in rabbit pups. Physiology and Behavior 179: 184 -
6 190.
7 [34] IJzerman H, Coan J, Wagemans F, Missler M, Van Beest I, et al. (2015) A theory of social ther-
8 moregulation in human primates. Front Psychol 6: 1–17.
9 [35] Morrison I (2016) Keep calm and cuddle on: Social touch as a stress buffer. Adaptive Human
0 Behavior and Physiology 2: 344–362.
1 [36] Burkett JP, Andari E, Johnson ZV, Curry DC, de Waal FBM, et al. (2016) Oxytocin-dependent
2 consolation behavior in rodents. Science 351: 375–378.
3 [37] Clay Z, de Waal FBM (2013) Development of socio-emotional competence in bonobos. Proceed-
4 ings of the National Academy of Sciences 110: 18121-18126.
5 [38] Romero T, Castellanos MA, de Waal FBM (2010) Consolation as possible expression of sym-
6 pathetic concern among chimpanzees. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 107:
7 12110-12115.
8 [39] Alberts JR, Brunjes PC (1978) Ontogeny of thermal and olfactory determinants of huddling in the
9 rat. Journal of comparative and physiological psychology 92: 897.
0 [40] Farrell WJ, Alberts JR (2007) Rat behavioral thermoregulation integrates with nonshivering ther-
1 mogenesis during postnatal development. Behavioral neuroscience 121: 1333–1341.
2 [41] Kojima S, Alberts JR (2009) Maternal care can rapidly induce an odor-guided huddling preference
3 in rat pups. Developmental psychobiology 51: 95–105.
4 [42] Gilbert C, McCafferty D, Le Maho Y, Martrette JM, Giroud S, et al. (2010) One for all and all
5 for one: The energetic benefits of huddling in endotherms. Biological Reviews of the Cambridge
6 Philosophical Society 85: 545–569.
7 [43] Kojima S, Alberts JR (2011) Warmth from skin-to-skin contact with mother is essential for the
8 acquisition of filial huddling preference in preweanling rats. Dev Psychobiol 53: 813–827.
9 [44] Bollen B, Matrot B, Ramanantsoa N, Van den Bergh O, D’Hooge R, et al. (2012) Olfactory classical
0 conditioning in neonatal mouse pups using thermal stimuli. Behav Brain Res 229: 250–256.
1 [45] Alberts JR, May B (1984) Nonnutritive, thermotactile induction of filial huddling in rat pups. De-
2 velopmental psychobiology 17: 161–181.
3 [46] Moriceau S, Sullivan R (2004) Neurobiology of infant attachment. Developmental Psychobiology
4 47: 230–242.
5 [47] Wilson SP (2017) Self-organising thermoregulatory huddling in a model of soft deformable litter-
6 mates. In: Mangan M, Mura A, Verschure PF, Prescott TJ, editors, Biomimetic and Biohybrid
7 Systems, Springer Berlin Heidelberg, volume 10384 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science. pp.
8 1-13.
9 [48] Eedy JW, Ogilvie DM (1970) The effect of age on the thermal preference of white mice (mus
0 musculus) and gerbils (meriones unguiculatus). Canadian Journal of Zoology 48: 1301-1306.
1 [49] Lagerspetz KYH (1966) Postnatal development of thermoregulation in laboratory mice. Hel-
2 gola¨nder wissenschaftliche Meeresuntersuchungen 14: 559–571.
3 [50] Mandl F (1988) Statistical Physics. John Wiley and Sons.
4 [51] Von Bertalanffy L (1957) Quantitative laws in metabolism and growth. Q Rev Biol 32: 217–231.
5 [52] Richards FJ (1959) A flexible growth model for empirical use. Journal of Experimental Botany
6 10(2): 290-301.
7 [53] Yamauchi C, Fujita S, Obara T, Ueda T (1983) Effects of room temperature on reproduction, body
8 and organ weights, food and water intakes, and hematology in mice. Jikken Dobutsu 32: 1–11.
9 [54] Rescorla RA, Wagner AR (1972) A theory of pavlovian conditioning: Variations in the effective-
0 ness of reinforcement and nonreinforcement. In: In Black AH, Prokasy WF, editors, Classical
1 Conditioning II: Current Research and Theory, Appleton Century Crofts, New York. pp. 64-99.
2 [55] MacKay DJC (2003) Information Theory, Inference, and Learning Algorithms. Cambridge Uni-
3 versity Press.
4 [56] Von Bertalanffy L (1968) General System Theory: Foundations, Development, Applications. New
5 York: George Braziller.
6 [57] Schrodinger E (2005) What is life? Cambridge University Press.
7 [58] Brunjes PC, Alberts JR (1979) Olfactory stimulation induces filial preferences for huddling in rat
8 pups. Journal of comparative and physiological psychology 93: 548.
9 [59] Bouslama M, Durand E, Chauvire L, Van den Bergh O, Gallego J (2005) Olfactory classical con-
0 ditioning in newborn mice. Behav Brain Res 161: 102–106.
1 [60] Boulant JA, Gonzalez RR (1977) The effect of skin temperature on the hypothalamic control of
2 heat loss and heat production. Brain Research 120: 367 - 372.
3 [61] Boulant JA (2000) Role of the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus in thermoregulation and fever. Clin-
4 ical infectious diseases 31: S157–S161.
5 [62] Conti B, Sanchez-Alavez M, Winsky-Sommerer R, Morale MC, Lucero J, et al. (2006) Transgenic
6 mice with a reduced core body temperature have an increased life span. Science 314: 825–828.
7 Figure Legends
8 Fig. 1. Development of mouse physiology. Data recorded by [49] in panel A and [48] in panel B are
9 shown as black dots. Curves show the fit of the model. A The depletion of brown adipose fat reserves
0 was modelled as an exponential decay, P , with a time constant of k = 8.31. B The mass-specific
1 metabolic rate, G, was modelled in terms of the entropy, S, associated with P . According to this model,
2 the mass-specific metabolic rate is predicted to peak at postnatal day k = 8.31.
3 Fig. 2. Development of mouse behavioural thermoregulation. Data recorded by [48] are shown as black
4 dots. Curves show the fit of the model. A The growth curve was modelled as a muscle mass M , plus
5 a non-muscle mass that rises as temperature T1 falls. B The environment temperature selected by mice
6 on a thermocline was modelled as a combination of T1 and temperature T2 , related to the development
7 of muscle and non-muscle masses respectively. The model suggests that behavioural thermoregulation
8 (panel B) is driven by the developing metabolism, defined in terms of the entropy associated with brown
9 adipose fat depletion.
0 Fig. 3. From physiological huddling to filial huddling. A Huddling statistics were generated by supply-
1 ing a Monte Carlo model [20] with temperatures T = T1 - T2 , weighted either by a = 1 to define a
2 ‘physiological huddling’ control condition, or by allowing associative strengths aa,b to adapt. In the con-
3 trol condition, the predicted mean group size decreases with T (light trace), but with associative learning
4 enabled (heavy trace) high huddling levels remain stable into adulthood, with huddling dominated by
5 ‘filial’ preferences (based on a) rather than physiology (based on T ) from approximately day 15. B De-
6 velopment of the associative strengths of an arbitrary pup to the odours of its littermates in the ‘learning’
7 condition. Heavier traces highlight the emergent heterogeneity of filial huddling preferences (litter size;
8 n = 7).
9 Supplementary Materials
0 Supplementary Code S1. Modelling the emergence of filial huddling. Python and c++ scripts for recre-
1 ating Fig. 3 from the main text. Place the files model.cpp, extract.py, and batch.sh in the same folder and
2 run batch.sh from a terminal to compile the model, generate datafiles, and display the simulation results.
3
4 Supplementary Figure S2. Fitted growth curves for mice conceived and reared at different environment
5 temperatures by [53]. For environment temperatures Ta ranging 12<U+25E6> C to 24<U+25E6> C, measurements (means
6 and standard deviations) were well approximated by the model (dashed curve) using c = 26 as a free
7 parameter. In warmer environments (Ta = 28<U+25E6> C to 32<U+25E6> C) the value of c required to obtain a reasonable
8 fit decreased sharply with Ta . Of the various temperature-dependent parameters described in a compre-
9 hensive survey of mouse thermal physiology [13], this profile matched (qualitatively) only the rate of
0 water intake, thus c may be modulated by evaporative heat loss, i.e., sweating.
Society Open
