Contributions of lunate cells and wax crystals to the surface
anisotropy of Nepenthes slippery zone
Lixin Wang, Dashuai Tao, Shiyun Dong, Shanshan Li and Yu Tian
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180766.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180766
Review timeline
Original submission: 25 May 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 27 July 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 3 August 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180766.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Huawei CHEN)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Wang et al. investigated the source of anisotropy in friction between the walls of nepanthes
pitcher plants and various proposed prey insects. Through investigation of experiments and
surface microstructure, they make clear the diffirence between the anisotropy caused by wax
crystals and the anisotropy caused by the lunate cells beneath the wax. The English in this paper
needs to be rechecked.
The science in this paper is, in my opinion, well done and fascinating.
There are following points to be improved.
1) The information about insect friction should be added especially the schematics of
experiments.
2) Figure captions should be polished.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Liping Heng)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript titled “Contributions of lunate cells and wax crystals to the surface anisotropy of
Nepenthes slippery zone” investigated the contributions of lunate cells and wax crystals to the
surface anisotropy of Nepenthes slippery zone. The results show that the anisotropic
configuration of lunate cells provide most of the anisotropy, whereas wax crystals produces less. I
commend this work is publishable after some problems was addressed.
1. The anisotropy provided by lunate cells was due to their anisotropic configuration. As to wax
crystals, when the load force was smaller than 1200 nN, the differential ratio of lee than 7.91% is
too weak to be evidence to declare the anisotropy. When the load force increased to 1500 nN, the
3
entire wax crystals were destroyed. The relatively large differential ratio is likely produced by the
substrate of slippery zone (page 13). According to the authors, the measured results could not
demonstrate the wax crystals produce the anisotropy of the slippery zone (it may result from the
substrate of the slippery zone).
2. Some anisotropic slippery surfaces bioinspired slippery Nepenthes surface have been reported
and the anisotropic properties have been investigated. Some related references should be cited,
such as Adv. Mater. 2016, 28, 6999–7007; Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 1801310 (DOI:
10.1002/adfm.201801310); Adv. Funct. Mater. 2017, 27, 1606199; J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 3414–
3421; ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2018, 10, 7442-7450.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This work analyzed the contributions of lunate cells and wax crystals to the surface anisotropy of
slippery zone by macro-micro-nano scaled experiments, and revealed the anisotropy mechanism
of Nepenthes slippery zone. I recommend this manuscript be published after the following
comments be carefully addressed:
1. Is it possible to give the friction data in nN (Figure 7), not in Volt? The calibration is needed to
compare the data.
2. In Figure 7, what is the meaning of FL(nN/µN)? Is this unit right?
3. I don’t understand the Left, Middle and Right panels in Figure 7(a)? Are they for the same
sample, but different loading range? Or for different samples? Please explain this in details.
4. Still in Figure 7, in the middle panel, the friction decreases as the loading force increases, not
following Amonton’s law. Why?
5. The authors mentioned “Accordingly, wax crystals make the cantilever tip generate different
4
friction data when scanning along the upward and downward directions”. But how, how does
the wax crystals influence friction forces?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180766.R0)
20-Jul-2018
Dear Dr Wang
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-180766 entitled
"Contributions of lunate cells and wax crystals to the surface anisotropy of Nepenthes slippery
zone" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision
in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this
email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-180766
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
5
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript before 29-Jul-2018. Please note that the revision deadline
will expire at 00.00am on this date. If you do not think you will be able to meet this date please let
me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
6
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science charge article processing charges for all new
submissions that are accepted for publication. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to
Royal Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers
submitted as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication, you will be
asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is approved by
Royal Society Publishing. You can find out more about the charges at
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Derek Abbott (Associate Editor) and Prof. R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Wang et al. investigated the source of anisotropy in friction between the walls of nepanthes
pitcher plants and various proposed prey insects. Through investigation of experiments and
surface microstructure, they make clear the diffirence between the anisotropy caused by wax
crystals and the anisotropy caused by the lunate cells beneath the wax. The English in this paper
needs to be rechecked.
The science in this paper is, in my opinion, well done and fascinating.
7
There are following points to be improved.
1) The information about insect friction should be added especially the schematics of
experiments.
2) Figure captions should be polished.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The manuscript titled “Contributions of lunate cells and wax crystals to the surface anisotropy of
Nepenthes slippery zone” investigated the contributions of lunate cells and wax crystals to the
surface anisotropy of Nepenthes slippery zone. The results show that the anisotropic
configuration of lunate cells provide most of the anisotropy, whereas wax crystals produces less. I
commend this work is publishable after some problems was addressed.
1. The anisotropy provided by lunate cells was due to their anisotropic configuration. As to wax
crystals, when the load force was smaller than 1200 nN, the differential ratio of lee than 7.91% is
too weak to be evidence to declare the anisotropy. When the load force increased to 1500 nN, the
entire wax crystals were destroyed. The relatively large differential ratio is likely produced by the
substrate of slippery zone (page 13). According to the authors, the measured results could not
demonstrate the wax crystals produce the anisotropy of the slippery zone (it may result from the
substrate of the slippery zone).
2. Some anisotropic slippery surfaces bioinspired slippery Nepenthes surface have been reported
and the anisotropic properties have been investigated. Some related references should be cited,
such as Adv. Mater. 2016, 28, 6999–7007; Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 1801310 (DOI:
10.1002/adfm.201801310); Adv. Funct. Mater. 2017, 27, 1606199; J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 3414–
3421; ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2018, 10, 7442-7450.
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
This work analyzed the contributions of lunate cells and wax crystals to the surface anisotropy of
slippery zone by macro-micro-nano scaled experiments, and revealed the anisotropy mechanism
of Nepenthes slippery zone. I recommend this manuscript be published after the following
comments be carefully addressed:
1. Is it possible to give the friction data in nN (Figure 7), not in Volt? The calibration is needed to
compare the data.
2. In Figure 7, what is the meaning of FL(nN/µN)? Is this unit right?
3. I don’t understand the Left, Middle and Right panels in Figure 7(a)? Are they for the same
sample, but different loading range? Or for different samples? Please explain this in details.
4. Still in Figure 7, in the middle panel, the friction decreases as the loading force increases, not
following Amonton’s law. Why?
5. The authors mentioned “Accordingly, wax crystals make the cantilever tip generate different
friction data when scanning along the upward and downward directions”. But how, how does
the wax crystals influence friction forces?
8
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180766.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180766.R1)
03-Aug-2018
Dear Dr Wang,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Contributions of lunate cells and wax
crystals to the surface anisotropy of Nepenthes slippery zone" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Royal Society Open Science Editorial Office
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Derek Abbott (Associate Editor) and R. Kerry Rowe (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Dear editors,
Thanks for your effort to this manuscript, also appreciate the reviewers for their
valuable and constructive comments. In the following, we try our best to reply these
comments in detail.
Reviewer 1-Comment 1: Wang et al. investigated the source of anisotropy in friction
between the walls of nepenthes pitcher plants and various proposed prey insects. Through
investigation of experiments and surface microstructure, they make clear the difference
between the anisotropy caused by wax crystals and the anisotropy caused by the lunate
cells beneath the wax. The English in this paper needs to be rechecked. The science in
this paper is, in my opinion, well done and fascinating.
Reply: Thanks for the suggestions, and we have checked the English in the
manuscript carefully, especially the grammar. The changed points are highlighted with
deep red color in our revised manuscript.
Reviewer 1-Comment 2: The information about insect friction should be added,
especially the schematics of experiments.
Reply: We try our best to catch the meanings of this comment. In our manuscript,
the Figure 1b (Experiment procedure), Figure 6 (results), and their linguistic description
are used to describe the insect (claws) friction on slippery zone. To make the description
much clearer, we added the information of insect friction, including the reason of taking
the ant Camponotus japonicus as experimental sample (the chapter of 2.3 Friction force
measurement, page 5), and the annotation of claws in Figure 6. In the revised manuscript,
we highlighted these changed points with rose color.
Reviewer 1-Comment 3: Figure captions should be polished.
Reply: All the Figure captions (page 21-22) in our manuscript are double checked to
revise the irrelevant and incorrect descriptions, as well as the grammar mistakes. The
changed points are highlighted with pink color in the revised manuscript.
Reviewer 2-Comment 1: The anisotropy provided by lunate cells was due to their
anisotropic configuration. As to wax crystals, when the load force was smaller than 1200
nN, the differential ratio of less than 7.91% is too weak to be evidence to declare the
anisotropy. When the load force increased to 1500 nN, the entire wax crystals were
destroyed. The relatively large differential ratio is likely produced by the substrate of
slippery zone (page 13). According to the authors, the measured results could not
demonstrate the wax crystals produce the anisotropy of the slippery zone (it may result
from the substrate of the slippery zone).
Reply: When the load force ranged from 1500 nN to 3000 nN, the differences in the
measured friction data were obvious (7.62–14.63%), but under these load forces the wax
crystals were destroyed completely and exposed the substrate of slippery zone. As
suggested by the reviewer (highlighted with red color in the above paragraph), most likely,
it is substrate not the wax crystals to make the cantilever tip generate the observably
different friction data. Therefore, the observable difference (7.62–14.63%) in the
measured friction data cannot be considered as strong evidence to declare the anisotropy
of wax crystals. Therefore, in the chapter of ‘4.2 Contribution of wax crystals to
anisotropy’, page 13-14, we revised the description. The changed parts was highlighted
with red color, as ‘Under these load forces, results of the SEM observation showed that the
cantilever tip could destroy the entire wax crystals, exposing the substrate of slippery zone (figure
8e–g). It is most likely that the substrate of slippery zone contacts with the cantilever tip and
causes the generation of the friction data. Accordingly, these significant differences in friction data
cannot serve as a reasonable evidence to declare the anisotropy of wax crystals, because they
probably result from the substrate of the slippery zone’.
Reviewer 2-Comment 2: Some anisotropic slippery surfaces bioinspired slippery
Nepenthes surface have been reported and the anisotropic properties have been
investigated. Some related references should be cited, such as (1) Adv. Mater. 2016, 28,
6999–7007; (2) Adv. Funct. Mater. 2018, 1801310 (DOI: 10.1002/adfm.201801310); (3)
Adv. Funct. Mater. 2017, 27, 1606199; (4) J. Mater. Chem. A 2018, 6, 3414–3421; (5)
ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2018, 10, 7442-7450.
Reply: Thanks for the valuable suggestion. We checked the five papers proposed by
the reviewer, and cited these papers in our manuscript, as [16], [17], [18], [19] and [20].
In the revised manuscript, the first paragraph of ‘Introduction’ part, we highlighted the
changed part with bright green color, as ‘and to develop super-lubricant interfaces for the
controllable motion of liquid droplets [16–20]’
Reviewer 3-Comment 1: Is it possible to give the friction data in nN (Figure 7), not in
Volt? The calibration is needed to compare the data.
Reply: Thanks for this valuable suggestion. The Figure 7 is used to show the
difference in friction data provided by the cantilever tip scanning on inverted-fixed and
normal-fixed slippery zones. Indeed, it is better to present the friction information with
the unit of ‘nN’. However, the friction data were scanned in three times (from July 2016
to March 2017), and the ‘spring’ of the AFM equipment was readjusted each time.
Unfortunately, the parameters of the AFM spring were not saved, so we could not present
the friction data with the unit of ‘nN’. Luckily, the differences in these friction data can
also be clearly showed with the unit of ‘V’. Appreciate for your understanding.
Reviewer 3-Comment 2: In Figure 7, what is the meaning of FL (nN/µN)? Is this unit
right?
Reply: In Figure 7a, the x-coordinates (Load force, FL) of the three panels have
different unit, the unit of the left panel is nN, the units of the middle and right panels are
µN, the FL (nN/µN) means the unit of nN and µN. However, it brings the various
interpretations, and we apologize for this mistake. In the revised manuscript, we corrected
this point (Figure 7a), as shown ‘Load force, FL (nN, left panel; µN, middle and right
panels)’ in Figure 7a.
Reviewer 3-Comment 3: I don’t understand the Left, Middle and Right panels in Figure
7(a)? Are they for the same sample, but different loading range? Or for different samples?
Please explain this in details.
Reply: The friction data of Figure 7a were obtained from the AFM scanning, namely,
the cantilever tip of the AFM apparatus scanned on the inverted-fixed and normal-foxed
slippery zones and generated the friction information. In all the AFM scanning, the
slippery zone from Nepenthes alata plant was selected as the experimental sample, the
load force and the scanning direction (downward or upward) were the variable factors.
Besides, the AFM scanning was conducted in three times from July 2016 to March 2017.
Therefore, the Left, Middle and Right panels in Figure 7a are the same samples (Slippery
zone from Nepenthes alata) with different load forces (from 100 to 3000 nN). To make
this point much clearer, we revised the corresponding points (the chapter of ‘2.4
AFM scanning’, page 6; caption of Figure 7, page 22), and highlighted with deep
yellow color in the revised manuscript.
Reviewer 3-Comment 4: Still in Figure 7, in the middle panel, the friction decreases as
the loading force increases, not following Amonton’s law. Why?
Reply: We studied the Amonton’s law: the force of friction is directly proportional
to the applied load, the force of friction is independent of the apparent area of contact,
kinetic friction is independent of the sliding velocity. As the increase of the applied load
force, sometimes the friction data decrease obviously (Figure 7a, middle panel), this is not
following the Amontons' 1st law. We guess, that is because, as the increase of the applied
load force, the cantilever tip can destroy the wax crystals and the fractured wax crystals
contaminate the cantilever tip, severing as a lubricant to cause the decrease of the friction
data. As being demonstrated in previous literatures (Gorb E, Hass K, Henrich A, Enders S,
Barbakadze N, Gorb S. 2005 Composite structure of the crystalline epicuticular wax layer of the slippery zone in the
pitchers of the carnivorous plant Nepenthes alata and its effect on insect attachment. J. Exp. Biol. 208, 4651–4662.
Wang LX, Zhou Q. 2011 Friction force of locust Locusta migratoria manilensis (Orthoptera, Locustidae) on slippery
zones surface of pitchers from four Nepenthes species. Tribol. Lett. 44, 345–353), the wax crystals can
contaminate insect attachment organs and decrease their attachment force. To make this
point much clearer, in the revised manuscript, we added the analysis (chapter of the
‘3.4 Friction test with an AFM cantilever’, page 10), and highlighted with orange
color.
Reviewer 3-Comment 5: The authors mentioned “Accordingly, wax crystals make the
cantilever tip generate different friction data when scanning along the upward and
downward directions”. But how, how does the wax crystals influence friction forces?
Reply: Based on the Figure 7, we concluded that: ‘Accordingly, wax crystals make
the cantilever tip generate different friction data when scanning along the upward and
downward directions, but the differences are not conspicuous, even rather unobvious.’.
The purpose of this analysis is to declare the differences in these friction data provided by
the cantilever tip on wax crystals along upward and downward directions were rather
small. We intended to show that the direction (upward or downward) of wax crystals
generates a slight effect to the friction data. To make our description act in accordance
with our real meaning, we revise this point (chapter of ‘3.4 Friction test with an AFM
cantilever’, page 10), as ‘Accordingly, when being scanned along the upward and
downward directions, the wax crystals make the cantilever tip generate different friction
data, but the differences are not conspicuous, even rather unobvious.’, and highlighted
with brown color.
The influence mechanism of wax crystals to the friction data is rather complicated,
and very difficult to conduct the corresponding experiments, because the structural
parameters of the wax crystals range from ~nm to ~µm, and the ~10µm structured lunate
cells with the space length of about 94µm and the height of 20 µm frequently interrupt the
AFM scanning. Next, we will pay attention to this influence mechanism, design a special
AFM cantilever to avoid the interrupt effect generated by the lunate cells, test the
mechanical properties of wax crystals, measure the friction forces under different loads
and different humidity, and propose a model to present a scientific explanation.
The above are our reply to the comments. However, we are not sure that the reviewers
can completely accept our reply. If not, we will revise this manuscript again. Thank you
for your effort.
Sincerely yours,
Lixin Wang, Yu Tian
Society Open
