Using sensitivity analysis to identify key factors for the
propagation of a plant epidemic
Loup Rimbaud, Claude Bruchou, Sylvie Dallot, David R. J. Pleydell, Emmanuel Jacquot,
Samuel Soubeyrand and Gaël Thébaud
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171435.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171435
Review timeline
Original submission: 22 September 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 21 November 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 1 December 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171435.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I really liked this paper and have only a few minor comments or suggestions.
[1] page 3, line 62, consider giving a bit more motivation for stochastic models. Some readers
more familiar with human diseases may not realise the importance for spatially structured plant
diseases.
[2] page 7, top para. I found myself a bit confused here by how the weighting worked, especially
the description of integrating g. Can you relook at your presentation of this approach to see if
you could make it a bit clearer? (Also on line 169, French comma --> English point)
[3] Page 10, top para. Can you justify why qk and pMI were treated differently from other
parameters.
[4] Page 11, L284. Isn't 100 bootstrap samples really very small? The tails of the distribution will
be quite stochastic so I would have thought you need more samples. Also, you're doing what,
using the 2.5/97.5% quantiles?
[5] Figure 4. Give an explanation of what the points are. Can you also consider making the panels
bigger by cutting white space round the panels and round the overall figure too?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Ciara Dangerfield)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Reviewer: Ciara Dangerfield, Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge
Major Comments
• The paper would benefit from a clear statement of the aims of the paper in the introduction, for
example what are the key questions that this paper tries to address, and then returning to these
aims in the discussion. In particular it was unclear to me whether the main aim of the paper was
3
to illustrate a new approach to sensitivity analysis or was it to identify key epidemiological
parameters that impact the spread of shakra?
• In the introduction a more detailed review of the literature on the methods used for sensitivity
analysis needs to be given and what the difference is with the approach taken in this paper. In
particular it needs to be made clear how the approach taken in this paper is novel.
• In the discussion there needs to be a detailed explanation as to the advantage of using both the
Sobol and metamodel approaches. What conclusion can be drawn by using the combined
approaches that cannot be obtained by using just one of these methods?
• It is unclear how doing both the broad-range and shakra-specific sensitivity analysis fitted with
the main aim of the paper which the authors stated in the introduction was ”…develop a method
for the sensitivity analsysis of stochastic spatillay explicit model….and to better understand the
influence of different epidemiolgocial parameters on epidemic spread”. For example it would be
useful and interesting to discuss the wider implications of the finding that the most important
parameter changes depending on the width of the intervals used in the sensitivity analysis.
• In the methods section there needs to be a clear description of the landscape used for
simulation including a figure showing the landscape and a justification for the choice of
landscape.
• It was unclear how the dispersal kernel had been calculated. If this approach has previously
been used then this work needs to be referenced. Otherwise more information needs to be given
on how the dispersal kernel was calculated and in particularly references to support the approach
taken.
Minor comments
• References needed to be included to support the second sentence of the introduction.
• In the data folder it would be useful to include a ‘readme’ file with a brief description of what
the code is. It would also be good to provide the code for the simulation model or a reference for
where this code is available.
• On page 10 I think there is an error in the first equation.
• In the results when they refer to the ‘value of the output’ it would be useful to put this into
context, so say what the output value is (in terms of the epidemiological model).
• In Fig 4 it would be useful to explicitly say what the output value is, and also the lines and dots
on the x-axis were very difficult to see. The dots could be made larger and vertical lines could be
used to identify the ends of the intervals.
• It was unclear what parameter values were used to obtain Figure 5, are they the baseline values
from the table?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171435)
01-Nov-2017
Dear Dr RIMBAUD,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Using sensitivity analysis to identify key factors for the
propagation of a plant epidemic") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like
you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 24-Nov-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
4
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171435
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
5
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Marta Kwiatkowska
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments:
The manuscript has been reviewed by two individuals as well as myself. Overall the manuscript
is a potentially interesting contribution, but currently lacks clarity in some places. Reviewer 2 has
provided some very useful points regarding how this can be improved, with particular reference
to the aims of the analysis, underlying model being investigated and novelty of the manuscript.
Reviewer 1 also comments on the number of bootstrap replicates taken to estimate the confidence
intervals - in addition to increasing these to ensure that the estimates are reliable - it would be
useful to include an indication of the associated computational time for implementing these
computer-intensive techniques and the other simulations within the paper.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
I really liked this paper and have only a few minor comments or suggestions.
[1] page 3, line 62, consider giving a bit more motivation for stochastic models. Some readers
more familiar with human diseases may not realise the importance for spatially structured plant
diseases.
[2] page 7, top para. I found myself a bit confused here by how the weighting worked, especially
the description of integrating g. Can you relook at your presentation of this approach to see if
you could make it a bit clearer? (Also on line 169, French comma --> English point)
[3] Page 10, top para. Can you justify why qk and pMI were treated differently from other
parameters.
[4] Page 11, L284. Isn't 100 bootstrap samples really very small? The tails of the distribution will
6
be quite stochastic so I would have thought you need more samples. Also, you're doing what,
using the 2.5/97.5% quantiles?
[5] Figure 4. Give an explanation of what the points are. Can you also consider making the
panels bigger by cutting white space round the panels and round the overall figure too?
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Reviewer: Ciara Dangerfield, Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge
Major Comments
• The paper would benefit from a clear statement of the aims of the paper in the introduction, for
example what are the key questions that this paper tries to address, and then returning to these
aims in the discussion. In particular it was unclear to me whether the main aim of the paper was
to illustrate a new approach to sensitivity analysis or was it to identify key epidemiological
parameters that impact the spread of shakra?
• In the introduction a more detailed review of the literature on the methods used for sensitivity
analysis needs to be given and what the difference is with the approach taken in this paper. In
particular it needs to be made clear how the approach taken in this paper is novel.
• In the discussion there needs to be a detailed explanation as to the advantage of using both the
Sobol and metamodel approaches. What conclusion can be drawn by using the combined
approaches that cannot be obtained by using just one of these methods?
• It is unclear how doing both the broad-range and shakra-specific sensitivity analysis fitted with
the main aim of the paper which the authors stated in the introduction was ”…develop a method
for the sensitivity analsysis of stochastic spatillay explicit model….and to better understand the
influence of different epidemiolgocial parameters on epidemic spread”. For example it would be
useful and interesting to discuss the wider implications of the finding that the most important
parameter changes depending on the width of the intervals used in the sensitivity analysis.
• In the methods section there needs to be a clear description of the landscape used for
simulation including a figure showing the landscape and a justification for the choice of
landscape.
• It was unclear how the dispersal kernel had been calculated. If this approach has previously
been used then this work needs to be referenced. Otherwise more information needs to be given
on how the dispersal kernel was calculated and in particularly references to support the approach
taken.
Minor comments
• References needed to be included to support the second sentence of the introduction.
• In the data folder it would be useful to include a ‘readme’ file with a brief description of what
the code is. It would also be good to provide the code for the simulation model or a reference for
where this code is available.
• On page 10 I think there is an error in the first equation.
• In the results when they refer to the ‘value of the output’ it would be useful to put this into
context, so say what the output value is (in terms of the epidemiological model).
• In Fig 4 it would be useful to explicitly say what the output value is, and also the lines and dots
on the x-axis were very difficult to see. The dots could be made larger and vertical lines could be
used to identify the ends of the intervals.
• It was unclear what parameter values were used to obtain Figure 5, are they the baseline values
from the table?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171435)
See Appendix A.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171435.R1)
01-Dec-2017
Dear Dr RIMBAUD,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Using sensitivity analysis to identify
key factors for the propagation of a plant epidemic" is now accepted for publication in Royal
Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Ruth King (Associate Editor) and Marta Kwiatkowska (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
ppendix A
Response to the comments on manuscript ID RSOS-171435
Using sensitivity analysis to identify key factors for the propagation of a plant
epidemic”
L. Rimbaud, C. Bruchou, S. Dallot, D. Pleydell, E. Jacquot, S. Soubeyrand, and G. Thébaud
thank the reviewers and editors for showing interest in this article, as well as for the in-depth
lysis and constructive comments. We have taken the comments into account by especially:
- expressing our aims more clearly in the introduction, and emphasising the novelty of our
approach;
- increasing the number of bootstrap replicates to estimate the confidence intervals of our
sensitivity indices, and changing the results and figures accordingly;
- adding the code of the model in the data folder deposited in Dryad.
ase find below a point-by-point response to the comments (the original comments are cited in
e italic font). Our new submission includes a version of the article with the changes highlighted,
owed by a “clean” version.
eree: 1 - Comments to the Author
mments to the Author(s)
ally liked this paper and have only a few minor comments or suggestions.
thank the reviewer for his/her enthusiasm and for the suggested improvements.
page 3, line 62, consider giving a bit more motivation for stochastic models. Some readers more
iliar with human diseases may not realise the importance for spatially structured plant diseases.
ne
page 7, top para. I found myself a bit confused here by how the weighting worked, especially the
cription of integrating g. Can you relook at your presentation of this approach to see if you
ld make it a bit clearer? (Also on line 169, French comma --> English point)
paragraph has been rephrased and a figure has been included in supporting information (Fig.
to help understand our approach to compute the weights of the exponential functions.
Page 10, top para. Can you justify why qk and pMI were treated differently from other
ameters.
ontrast with the broad-range sensitivity analysis, the sharka-specific sensitivity analysis was
rmed by available knowledge on sharka epidemiology in France. However, the source of
rmation was different depending on the parameter. In passing, we notice that in the previous
sion we had forgotten to mention that parameter Phi was informed by orchard surveillance data.
paragraph has been rephrased to make all the justifications clearer.
Page 11, L284. Isn't 100 bootstrap samples really very small? The tails of the distribution will
quite stochastic so I would have thought you need more samples. Also, you're doing what, using
2.5/97.5% quantiles?
re-estimated the 95% confidence interval of the sensitivity indices using 10,000 bootstrap
licates, and accordingly changed the ‘Results’ section, Figure 2 and Figure S5. Actually, the
mates are extremely close to those obtained with 100 bootstrap replicates.
are not sure to understand the second question. The 2.5/97.5% quantiles were used to estimate
95% confidence intervals of the sensitivity indices (visible in Figure 2 and Figure S5). In the
cle the sentence has been completed to be more explicit.
Figure 4. Give an explanation of what the points are. Can you also consider making the panels
ger by cutting white space round the panels and round the overall figure too?
ne. Figure 4 and Figure S7 have been modified as suggested in order to be more visible.
iewer: 2
mments to the Author(s)
iewer: Ciara Dangerfield, Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge
jor Comments
The paper would benefit from a clear statement of the aims of the paper in the
oduction, for example what are the key questions that this paper tries to address, and then
rning to these aims in the discussion. In particular it was unclear to me whether the main aim of
paper was to illustrate a new approach to sensitivity analysis or was it to identify key
demiological parameters that impact the spread of shakra?
ually we had both aims. We wrote them more explicitly in the introduction, and followed the
iewer’s advice by restating these aims in the discussion.
In the introduction a more detailed review of the literature on the methods used for
sitivity analysis needs to be given and what the difference is with the approach taken in this
er. In particular it needs to be made clear how the approach taken in this paper is novel.
re are several novelties in this work.
- Firstly, very few studies in plant epidemiology used formal sensitivity analysis, and if so
they were not thorough with respect to all epidemiological processes and interactions, either
because they were performed alongside model simulations aiming to answer more specific
questions (e.g. Chan & Jeger, 1994; Jeger & Chan, 1995; Papaïx et al., 2014), or because
they used less informative approaches like one-at-a-time methods (Holt et al., 1999), or
factorial numerical experiments with ANOVA (Xu et al., 1998; Fabre et al., 2009; Fabre et
al., 2012). Our article is completely dedicated to sensitivity analysis. It proposes the joint
use of advanced sensitivity analysis and metamodelling methods to help understand the
behaviour of a simulation model and assess the relative influence of all epidemiological
processes as well as their interactions in a rigorous framework.
- Secondly, we dealt with model stochasticity, for which there is no reference method to
perform a sensitivity analysis, in contrast to deterministic models.
- Thirdly, in previous studies, both wide and narrow variation ranges may be used in the
same sensitivity analysis, depending on whether knowledge on the associated parameters is
available (e.g. Fabre et al., 2009; Fabre et al., 2012). In our work, we intended to treat
equally all target parameters in order to get the fairest possible comparison of their relative
influence. Thus we carried out two separated analyses and illustrated the impact of the
variation ranges on the result of a sensitivity analysis.
- Finally, this work offers a better understanding of the spread of perennial plant diseases,
and especially sharka, a severe viral disease of trees of the genus Prunus (e.g. plum, apricot,
peach).
introduction of our article has been modified to include all these elements.
In the discussion there needs to be a detailed explanation as to the advantage of using
h the Sobol and metamodel approaches. What conclusion can be drawn by using the combined
roaches that cannot be obtained by using just one of these methods?
ually, we addressed this point in the first part of the discussion (‘Sobol’s method and
amodeling complement each other’), but we agree that the previous version of the article did not
phasise well the complementarity of Sobol’s and metamodeling approaches. This section has
n modified to give a better explanation of the advantage of using both methods.
It is unclear how doing both the broad-range and shakra-specific sensitivity analysis fitted
h the main aim of the paper which the authors stated in the introduction was ”…develop a
hod for the sensitivity analsysis of stochastic spatillay explicit model….and to better understand
influence of different epidemiolgocial parameters on epidemic spread”. For example it would
useful and interesting to discuss the wider implications of the finding that the most important
ameter changes depending on the width of the intervals used in the sensitivity analysis.
previously mentioned, we have now more clearly expressed our aims in the introduction, and
ified the use of both broad-range and sharka specific sensitivity analyses to illustrate the impact
he width of the variation ranges. Following the reviewer’s advice, we also discussed wider
lications of the impact of variation ranges in the ‘Discussion’ section.
In the methods section there needs to be a clear description of the landscape used for
ulation including a figure showing the landscape and a justification for the choice of landscape.
ne. Figure S1 has been added in supporting information.
It was unclear how the dispersal kernel had been calculated. If this approach has
viously been used then this work needs to be referenced. Otherwise more information needs to
given on how the dispersal kernel was calculated and in particularly references to support the
roach taken.
dispersal kernel has been estimated in a previous study (Pleydell et al., 2017), which is
rently available on BioRxiv and a revised version is presently under consideration for
lication in PLoS Computational Biology. This study is now referenced also in the section
senting the dispersal kernel in the present article.
or comments
References needed to be included to support the second sentence of the introduction.
ne.
In the data folder it would be useful to include a ‘readme’ file with a brief description of
at the code is. It would also be good to provide the code for the simulation model or a reference
where this code is available.
code has been included in the data folder, as well as a readme file.
On page 10 I think there is an error in the first equation.
have checked the 1st and 2nd equations (calculation of the first-order and total Sobol’s indices)
we did not find any error. We followed the equations written in (Saltelli et al., 2010), which are
ived as presented in Supplemental Method S3.
In the results when they refer to the ‘value of the output’ it would be useful to put this into
text, so say what the output value is (in terms of the epidemiological model).
output variable is now expressed more explicitly in the ‘Results’ section. In addition, in each
sitivity analysis we added the range of values obtained for this output variable, to help put the
ults of our study into context.
In Fig 4 it would be useful to explicitly say what the output value is, and also the lines and
s on the x-axis were very difficult to see. The dots could be made larger and vertical lines could
used to identify the ends of the intervals.
output value in Figure 4 was clearly detailed in the legend, so we do not understand the first
t of the comment. However, as advised by Reviewer 1, the legend is now more explicit with
ard to the meaning of the points in the graphic, and the plots are bigger. In addition the lines and
s on the x-axis are now thicker to improve legibility.
It was unclear what parameter values were used to obtain Figure 5, are they the baseline
ues from the table?
. It has been added in the legend.
erature Cited:
an MS, Jeger MJ. 1994. An analytical model of plant virus disease dynamics with roguing and
replanting. J. Appl. Ecol. 31: 413-27
re F, Bruchou C, Palloix A, Moury B. 2009. Key determinants of resistance durability to plant
viruses: Insights from a model linking within- and between-host dynamics. Virus Res. 141:
140-9
re F, Rousseau E, Mailleret L, Moury B. 2012. Durable strategies to deploy plant resistance in
agricultural landscapes. New Phytol. 193: 1064-75
t J, Colvin J, Muniyappa V. 1999. Identifying control strategies for tomato leaf curl virus
disease using an epidemiological model. J. Appl. Ecol. 36: 625-33
er MJ, Chan MS. 1995. Theoretical aspects of epidemics: uses of analytical models to make
strategic management decisions. Can. J. Plant Pathol. 17: 109-14
aïx J, Adamczyk-Chauvat K, Bouvier A, Kiêu K, S. T, Lannou C, Monod H. 2014. Pathogen
population dynamics in agricultural landscapes: The Ddal modelling framework. Infect.
Genet. Evol. 27: 509-20
ydell DRJ, Soubeyrand S, Dallot S, Labonne G, Chadœuf J, Jacquot E & Thébaud G. 2017.
Estimation of the dispersal distances of an aphid-borne virus in a patchy landscape. bioRxiv.
(doi:10.1101/109561)
telli A, Annoni P, Azzini I, Campolongo F, Ratto M, Tarantola S. 2010. Variance based
sensitivity analysis of model output. Design and estimator for the total sensitivity index.
Comput. Phys. Commun. 181: 259-70
XM, Ridout MS. 1998. Effects of initial epidemic conditions, sporulation rate, and spore
dispersal gradient on the spatio-temporal dynamics of plant disease epidemics.
Phytopathology 88: 1000-12
Society Open
