The importance of delineating networks by activity type in
bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) in Cedar Key,
Florida
Stefanie Gazda, Swami Iyer, Timothy Killingback, Richard Connor and Solange Brault
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140263.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140263
Review timeline
Original submission: 26 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 20 November 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 30 January 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 5 February 2015
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140263.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The study entitled ‘Network-Based Analysis of Activity Patterns in Bottlenose Dolphins
(Tursiops truncatus) in Cedar Key, Florida’ examines separate bottlenose dolphin social networks
created using association data from different behavioral states. There is indeed good reason to
believe that social patterns may differ depending on behavioral state and networks using
separate states are certainly worth looking at. However, I have a number of questions and
concerns about the study.
A couple of references are made to social or behavioral dynamics. Since this study was on static
networks and didn’t track any changes over time, ‘patterns’ is a better term than ‘dynamics.’
The study is primarily descriptive, which is ok, but would benefit from some hypotheses and
predictions. Also, the comparisons are all qualitative. There are no statistics comparing the
networks, with the exception of the community overlap.
My biggest concern is that, according to their methods, the authors used predominant group
activity to assign behavioral states to individuals and assign them to behavior state networks.
Does this mean that if 5 dolphins were sighted in a group and 3 were foraging and 2 were
socializing, the socializing dolphins would be included in the foraging network?
Also the methods would benefit from more detail. With regard to the study subjects, what
information is available regarding their ages and sexes. I know these data may be hard to collect
but, for example, were dependent calves included in the networks? Also, what was the range of
sightings on individuals? Individuals had to have been sighted at least 3 times for inclusion, but
what was the average, sd, and maximum number of sightings? Also, the authors mention that
‘many’ animals are residents – what proportion of the population is ‘many?’ Is there a chance
that individuals sighted only 3 times are not residents? Some of these questions, particularly
regarding residence, may be difficult to answer, but addressing them in the manuscript would
help interpret the results.
Also, in order to understand what the HWI is, what the equation for weighted clustering
coefficient was used, how community structure overlap was calculated, etc. all requires seeking
out other separate references. It would help to include the equations or descriptions with the
citations. I also believe there are different ways to quantify community or clique membership.
Which one was used? The authors do a much better job explaining the methods when describing
the centrality metrics they calculated. However, since the different behavior state networks are
different sizes, the metrics should be normalized before they are compared. Also, are these
differences statistically significant?
It’s not clear to me why network metrics are used to draw conclusions about the size of the
groups individuals are in when in each behavior state. Table 2 presents the average group size.
I’m not sure how the targeted removals results fit in. There is no discussion about why that
might be biologically relevant. Maybe if individuals were more likely to be ‘removed’ in one
state compared to another it could have conservation implications.
I don’t understand what is meant by the argument that setting the threshold at 3 maintains
‘significant patterns of association’ does this mean if you increased or decreased the sighting
threshold there were no longer preferred associations? Also, the justification for this threshold
should be in the methods, not the discussion. The discussion of ecological factors that could be
underlying some of these results is interesting, but more discussion could be given to why the
purported differences between networks from different behavior states are biologically relevant.
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Maurício Cantor)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The data is not deposited in any online repository; the authors claim to make the data available
upon request
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Referee comments on the manuscript RSOS-140263
Dear Ms. Gazda and co-authors,
Please find below my comments on your manuscript entitled “Network-Based Analysis of
Activity Patterns in Bottlenose Dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) in Cedar Key, Florida”, submitted
to the journal Royal Society Open Science. Refining the understanding of social structure by
disentangling the behavioral context in which the associations of individuals were collected is a
relevant contribution to the field. While I harmonize with the question addressed and am an
enthusiast of the potential of network theory, I have some concerns with the presentation of the
manuscript. All of them derive from the strong emphasis on the methodological approach. The
manuscript will be greatly improved when rephrased to alleviate this emphasis to make the
biological relevance of your findings clearer. I appreciate your attention to my suggestions and
hope you find them helpful and constructive.
Major concerns:
1. Emphasis on the methods
The manuscript overstates the importance of network methods and so buries the main question
addressed. This is clear even in the title. The emphasis on the methods would not be a concern if
the use of graph theory to describe animal societies was truly a novelty. The application of
network methods, only in cetacean studies, is more than 10 years old (e.g. Lusseau 2003). The
broad picture of the manuscript—the importance of accounting for the behavioral context of
dyadic associations when analyzing social structure—must be highlighted. I strongly suggest the
authors to rephrase the manuscript to focus on the biological meaning of their findings. The
motivation for the work and the interpretation of its findings can be improved addressing the
following questions: how does our understanding of the social structure (here given by the
network topology) changes when accounting for the behavioral context of social relationships?
How much information about the social patterns is lost when lumping social data collected
during different behavioral contexts? Moreover, to reach a wide audience, this manuscript needs
4
to be contextualized in a broader background, beyond its importance to cetacean studies. In
addition to Madden et al. 2009, I recommend consider the following manuscripts and references
therein: Lusseau 2007 PlosOne, Barret et al. 2012 Phil. Trans. B., Goldenberg et al. 2014
10.1016/j.anbehav.2014.07.002.
2. Abstract needs rephrasing
While the abstract nicely states the motivation for the work, it overstates the methods and does
not provide either a summary of the results, neither interpretations of them or conclusion of the
manuscript. Please replace the questions at the end by their answers.
3. The methods section is long, overuses network jargon and contain too many network metrics.
This section can be summarized. The “network construction” section is hard to grasp and the
description of the permutation tests is incomplete and out of place. The “network analysis”
section contains too many network metrics (some of them, especially the node-based ones, are
related) and does not contain a clear biological motivation for using them. While the authors put
much effort in explaining how the metrics are calculated, they forgot the essential: to convince the
reader why they are relevant proxies to answer the proposed question. The authors could
describe metrics briefly and reference to one of several papers that define them properly (e.g.
Newman 2003, Boccaletti et al. 2006 Phys. Rep.). More importantly, please state clearly why one
would expect these metrics to vary across behavioral states, and why such variation matter.
4. Comparison of networks
The authors have calculated many properties of network generated from association data
collected in different behavioral contexts, but I miss a more direct comparison of these properties.
While it would be problematic to perform parametric statistical tests with network data, null
models are a robust approach to test the significance of network metrics. Essentially, one can
randomize the empirical data to generate a benchmark distribution of a given network metric to
which the empirical value can be compared to (essentially similar to the permutation test
performed with Socprog, P8L6). I suggest two non-exclusive strategies to compare the networks.
First, one could evaluate the overlap of the 95% confidence intervals generated by the null model
of each network metric between networks. Second, one could perform permutation tests, for
instance node-label permutation, two-sample permutation or Mantel tests to assess and compare
social metrics between the same individuals in different behavioral contexts. Please note that to
build meaningful null model and randomization tests, one needs to decide carefully which
feature of the empirical data to randomize and which to constrain (an issue that depends on the
question and data structure). As a general reference for null models see the book by Gotelli &
Graves 1996 and for a review on null hypothesis testing with network data please see Croft et al.
2011 Trends Ecol. Evol.
5. There is no clear motivation for the simulated knock-out experiments
The text lacks motivation for conducting simulations on robustness to node removal from social
networks in different behavioral activities. I recommend removing these experiments as their
relevance for comparing networks is not convincing, in part because the authors fail to justify
their goals but also because their findings seem to be not very biologically informative. Node
removal simulations are very useful alternatives to the logistically challenging experimental
interventions necessary to test specific hypothesis in animal social structure (e.g. Flack et al. 2006
Nature), and to predict consequences of ecological networks to species extinction (e.g. Memmot
et al. 2004 Proc. R. Soc.). They are also useful to predict how transmission of quantities is affected
by the removal of elements in the networked system (e.g. information flow in societies) which is
particularly relevant in man-made networks designed for optimum flow (such as power grids,
airport connections). But removal experiments are not strictly relevant for comparing animal
social networks in different behavioral contexts; here they add little more than methods, and
results that are hard to interpret biologically.
5
6. The presentation of results should be improved
First, the results and discussion contain insufficient biological interpretation of the numerical
results. In these sections we see overuse of jargon and acronyms that diminish the readability of
the text (e.g. referring to the networks as “Nt, Ns, Nf” instead of a clearer statement of their
meaning). For the same reason, the tables are hard to grasp. Second, I suggest plotting the results
for each network instead of presenting them in tables. Once the 95% confidence intervals are
generated with the null models, the plots of the differences between networks will be much more
intuitive and visually appealing. Third, the Table 1 lacks very important information: the results
of the permuted data. Statistical significance does not necessarily mean biological significance,
thus in addition to the p-values, we need to see how large/small the empirical mean, SD and CV
and in comparison to the permuted data. Finally because social analyses as data-hungry, a
summary of the sampling effort (number of sampling occasions, sighted groups, group sizes,
mean proportion of photo-identified individuals in the groups etc.) should be organized in a
simple table.
7. Discussion needs some rephrasing
I strongly recommend removing the 4 first paragraphs. The observation threshold issue when
calculating association indices has been extensively discussed elsewhere (e.g. Whitehead 2008,
Croft et al. 2008) and is not a strong start for the discussion of this manuscript. It is truly an
important issue, but does not deserve this much attention in the discussion: please keep it straight
to the point and present this issue in the methods section. Please also remove acronyms (e.g. Nt,
Ns, Nf) and technical terms (e.g. “V-indices”). The discussion seems to start at the 5th paragraph
and becomes really fluid and well-written from the Page 16 Line 24 on.
Minor points (P: page, L: lines in the pdf file)
P3L36: remove “In general”; networks always consist of sets of interacting nodes
P3L41: remove “and represents the spatial association between the corresponding objects”. This is
not true for all networks, for instance coauthorship networks, social media, gene flow networks
etc.
P4L6: see also Lusseau 2007 PlosOne, Barret et al. 2012 Phil. Trans. B., Goldenberg et al. 2014
Anim. Behav.
P4-18: This seems to be the main point of the manuscript, and I recommend improving it
considering the following ideas. It is true that networks are likely to have different topologies
using data collected in different behavioral contexts. This is because the most common proxy for
social relationship among animals is co-occurrence in groups which assumes that group members
must interact socially (the “gambit of group” hypothesis, see Whitehead & Dufault 1999). Thus
the use of association indices (which estimates the proportion of time individuals are seen
together in a group) is common practice for defining the links of animal social networks.
However, this may be a coarse way of defining social relationships, potentially biasing the
interpretation of the overall social structure (i.e. the network topology). One way to overcome
this issue is accounting for the behavioral context in which the group-membership data was
collected. By analyzing the structure of social networks in different contexts separately, one may
achieve a more realistic portray of the social structure.
P5L15: “fruitfully” is vague
P5L22: In addition to list of methods, please state what questions they help you to answer.
P6L6-15: the use of terms “group” and “sighting” for defining the same thing is confusing, please
try to be clearer.
P7L53: Because the network edges are the association indices, how biased they are when
including individuals observed three times? Please briefly discuss how such low sample size
affects your confidence on your measure of social relationship that builds the network
P9L8: Assortativity can happen not only based on node degree but on other node attributes. In
social networks for instance nodes can have higher probability to interact according to some class
they belong to, such as sex, age and so on.
6
P12L9: The permutation tests need to be interpreted properly. Table 1 does not give us enough
information to judge if there is a biological relevant difference between network types or between
empirical and permuted values.
P12L20-27: What does the assortativity results mean?
P15L10-23: Please state clearly what the differences in the network metrics actually mean for the
dolphins. How do you interpret these numerical variations when dolphins are traveling, feeding
or socializing?
P18L41: replace “population structure” by “social structure”
P1848-51: How can you interpret the removal of individuals biologically? Why is important that
the global topology of network generated when dolphins are feeding is more of less robust to the
simulated removal of individuals than when they are traveling? If the real example of an
“individual removal” is death of permanent emigration, would that matter if at that particular
time the individual was feeding, socializing or traveling? As stated above, I do not think these
simulations are relevant for this manuscript.
P19L3: Accounting for behavioral state can be indeed relevant, but it depends on the question
asked.
P19L6: replace “population structure” by “social structure”
P19L13-18: The last sentence is unclear: what are the conceptual and methodological advances in
network science? How exactly your work contribute to that?
P30L18: Are you sure the permutation test gives you ‘covariance’? Do you mean “CV”? In this
case you are testing differences between Coefficient of Variance of HWI in empirical and
permuted data, not covariance.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140263)
07-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Gazda,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Network-Based Analysis of Activity Patterns in
Bottlenose Dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) in Cedar Key, Florida") has now received comments
from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and
Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the
Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within 14 days - if we do not hear from you within
this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional
circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once
submitted your paper may be returned to the previous referees, or new ones if these are
unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
7
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140263.R1 (Revision)
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140263)
See Appendix A.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
While the authors did address a number of my concerns, I still have a number of questions and
echo previous reviews that call for better biological justification and re-framing. I feel this study
could be a much better contribution if framed differently.
The introduction would be considerably stronger if it focused on why social structure might be
different depending on behavioral context and focus less on the methodology, which can be
viewed as a means for testing biologically meaningful hypotheses. The authors bring up the
excellent point that this approach may be particularly important in species exhibiting fission-
fusion dynamics. The paper could be framed in terms of how fission-fusion species manage the
costs and benefits of grouping and use this to make predictions about differences in social
structure. The authors touch on this in the discussion and make some excellent points, but it
should be moved into the introduction to justify the study.
8
The hypotheses provided are more predictions and the theoretical basis for why each prediction
is made is unclear. Tying these predictions into cost/benefits of grouping and socioecological
theory would make a stronger case. Theory behind predictions for foraging networks is touched
on, but should be extended to all networks. Also, why and how do you think the behavioral
networks will differ from the overall network?
Abstract: How do you know that these weighted activity networks “accurately” show social
patterns. If you already know what they are why did you do this study. Also, how do you know
that the overall network is not “accurate” and behavioral networks are?
P3l49: Edges represent connections between individuals – they don’t necessarily have to be
associations – could be direct interactions or could be home range overlap.
P4l30: Not sure how these examples fit in. Also, I didn’t think baboons were considered a
fission-fusion species – they live in stable social groups that fission only occasionally (also which
species of baboon is this study on)?
P4l51: Presence in a group represents a real association since association is defined by shared
group membership – it might not represent a biologically meaningful relationship though.
P5l9: Here and throughout, you are talking about associations (shared group membership) not
interactions (e.g. rubbing or contact swimming).
P5l32: This what suggests that…
P6l10: weaker associations compared to what?
P7l18: Regarding my previous comment about predominant group sampling, the cited studies
don’t look at association by behavioral state so it is not so much a methodological concern there,
but it is in this case since the whole point is that social structure might vary based on behavior.
However, in the revision and response to reviewers you use at least once the term ‘behavioral
context’, which makes a lot of sense to me. The network membership was assigned based on the
behavioral context of the sighting, not the behavioral state of the individuals. Make that clear.
I am now confused though since the methods state that the definition of group is based on the
10m chain rule AND dolphins interacting socially or with coordinated behavioural activity,
which suggests all the dolphins (not 50%) have to be behaving the same way in order to be in the
group.
Methods: Thank you for adding information regarding who was included in the study and
sampling effort in terms of number of overall sightings and identifiable individuals; however
there is still no information on number of sightings per individual.
P8l42: I’m confused. You say “If a pair was already connected by an edge, its weight was
incremented by one.” And “with the weight on each edge representing the number of times the
corresponding dolphins were seen together.” But then “We used a half-weight index as a
measure of strength of association between dolphins.” And “In our analyses, we used the HWI
values as edge weights rather than the number of sightings.” Why not just say that the edge
weights were HWI?
P9l20: How did you test whether edge weights were unaffected by the variation in the average
group sizes in the sightings data? Also, what about the influence of network size (number of
vertices) on network metrics. A degree of 9 out of 10 might be interpreted differently than a
degree of 9 out of 50 even though both equal 9. Furthermore, in table 3 it looks like the number of
vertices in your networks is correlated with the number of sightings used to create those
9
networks. Do those differences remain if you subsample sightings so that each behavior network
is built with the same number of sightings?
P9l32: Do you mean that that was the lowest number where you detected preferred associates?
P9-10: Regarding the inclusion threshold: Wey et al (2008) found that certain metrics were more
robust to removals than others and that data for weighted degree could only be reduced by 10-
12% before it was significantly different. Also, you cite Gero et al. (2005) as having used a
threshold of 3. I’m confused as I thought they used a minimum sighting threshold of 30.
P10: Network metrics is a better term than network concepts
P10: Were these truly random Erdos-Renyi networks, or were they modified? I’m guessing
modified if done in SOCPROG.
Results: Did you actually compare metrics between networks? Your language sounds like you
did e.g. conclusions comparing clustering coefficients. Reviewer 2 made some excellent
suggestions about looking at the overlap of 95% confidence intervals or using two-sample
permutation tests to compare network metrics. I think as I understand it right now you are very
limited in what you conclude about ‘differences’ between networks. Without more direct
comparisons your conclusions are limited when they don’t have to be.
P12l34: Why do you think the overlap between the overall network and the behavior networks is
smaller than the overlap between the behavior networks themselves? That seems interesting
given the behavior networks are subsets of the overall network. Is there a way to compare the
overlap statistically? Maybe the differences are not that meaningful?
P14l20: How are you using the term group here? Connected during sighting by 10m chain rule?
A network component? A network community? If the first one then how do you know if they are
‘weakly connected?’ Same question regarding the use of the term groups in table 1, number of
connected components, biological significance.
Discussion: Move some of the discussion of costs and benefits of grouping and fission fusion to
the intro to set up the importance of the study.
P16l6: I guess there could be local enhancement going on, but it is hard to tease apart whether
the dolphins would be there for the fish regardless of whether other individuals were there.
P16l11: Either explain the playback experiments further or leave out.
P16l25: More complex than what?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140263.R1)
07-Jan-2015
Dear Dr Gazda
Your manuscript entitled "The Importance of Delineating Networks by Activity Type in
Bottlenose Dolphins (Tursiops truncatus) in Cedar Key, Florida" which you submitted to Royal
Society Open Science, has been reviewed. The comments of the reviewer(s) are included at the
bottom of this letter.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 30-Jan-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
10
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions. "Under" Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
11
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140263.R1)
See Appendix B.
pendix A
ar Editor—
nk you for the comments from the reviewers; they were very helpful in guiding our
ision, which we believe is now suitable for publication in RSOS.
th reviewers made several similar suggestions. We have combined them in the
ponse below, but otherwise the responses are in order.
cerely yours,
fanie Gazda
----
ociate Editor: Note that the abstract gives essentially no results; accordingly, it should be
ended to include a summary of the principal findings.
viewer 2: Abstract needs rephrasing. While the abstract nicely states the motivation for the
k, it overstates the methods and does not provide either a summary of the results, neither
rpretations of them or conclusion of the manuscript. Please replace the questions at the end
heir answers.
thank the reviewer and Associate Editor for these comments, and we have revised
Abstract to better include the findings of the study.
viewer 1 (R1): A couple of references are made to social or behavioral dynamics. Since this
dy was on static networks and didn’t track any changes over time, ‘patterns’ is a better term
n ‘dynamics.’
agree with this and have changed the wording accordingly throughout the document.
The study is primarily descriptive, which is ok, but would benefit from some hypotheses and
dictions.
make the manuscript read more clearly we have added hypotheses and predictions to
Introduction and used them to organize the Results and the Discussion sections.
Also, the comparisons are all qualitative. There are no statistics comparing the networks,
h the exception of the community overlap.
However, since the different behavior state networks are different sizes, the metrics should
normalized before they are compared. Also, are these differences statistically significant?
: Comparison of networks: The authors have calculated many properties of network
erated from association data collected in different behavioral contexts, but I miss a more
ct comparison of these properties. While it would be problematic to perform parametric
istical tests with network data, null models are a robust approach to test the significance of
work metrics. Essentially, one can randomize the empirical data to generate a benchmark
ribution of a given network metric to which the empirical value can be compared to
sentially similar to the permutation test performed with Socprog, P8L6). I suggest two non-
lusive strategies to compare the networks. First, one could evaluate the overlap of the 95%
fidence intervals generated by the null model of each network metric between networks.
ond, one could perform permutation tests, for instance node-label permutation, two-sample
mutation or Mantel tests to assess and compare social metrics between the same individuals
ifferent behavioral contexts. Please note that to build meaningful null model and
domization tests, one needs to decide carefully which feature of the empirical data to
domize and which to constrain (an issue that depends on the question and data structure).
a general reference for null models see the book by Gotelli & Graves 1996 and for a review
null hypothesis testing with network data please see Croft et al. 2011 Trends Ecol. Evol.
thank both of the reviewers for the suggestions to add statistics. The
ommendations from R2 are particularly helpful. Based on these suggestions, we used
andomization test using edge rearrangement. The null hypothesis is that a structural
asure A on the real network is no different from that of a random network. We
epted or rejected the null hypothesis by comparing the observed measure A with the
quency distribution of A calculated for an ensemble of 10,000 random networks, each
erated using edge rearrangement (Croft et al., 2011; Lusseau et al., 2006). We also
d the Mann-Whitney U test to test for possible pairwise differences in group sizes
eur et al., 2011). Each network was compared to the others.
note in the Methods that edge weights in these networks are unaffected by the
iation in the average group sizes in the sightings data. Consequently, the network
perties based on the edge weights are also unaffected by the group-size variations.
My biggest concern is that, according to their methods, the authors used predominant
up activity to assign behavioral states to individuals and assign them to behavior state
works. Does this mean that if 5 dolphins were sighted in a group and 3 were foraging and 2
e socializing, the socializing dolphins would be included in the foraging network?
s, this may occur but the characteristics of the individual’s group and association
terns across multiple group samples will be influenced primarily by the predominant
ivity—thus the effect of the problem, to the extent that it occurs, will be to introduce
me ‘noise’ in the data and reduce the chance of significant differences between
work types. But we think the issue is minor; predominant group activity is a common
thod for determining the behavioral states of individuals in a group. This method has
n used in many different dolphin studies (see two listed below). One way to mitigate
problem is to narrowly define a group spatially. We used the 10 meter chain rule
olker et al., 1992) to do this. According to this rule, any dolphin outside of 10 meters
m another dolphin is not part of the group. This is a conservative estimate to follow
has been used in many other dolphin studies (see MA Stanton and J Mann, 2014 doi:
1007/978-4-431-54523-1_6, and Kopps et al., 2014 doi: 10.1098/rspb.2013.3245 for two
ent uses of this chain rule and predominant group activity). To clarify this further in
Methods, we also added information on how we delineated what a group was in the
d, not just with predominant group activity.
With regard to the study subjects, what information is available regarding their ages and
es.
his time we do not have substantial information about the relative ages of the
ividuals in the population, or their sexes. This is the next logical step in further
lysis of these networks. We have added a several sentences in the discussion about
s.
I know these data may be hard to collect but, for example, were dependent calves included
he networks?
pendant calves were not included in the networks, and we have added a sentence
ut this in the Methods.
Also, what was the range of sightings on individuals? Individuals had to have been sighted
east 3 times for inclusion, but what was the average, sd, and maximum number of sightings?
have added this information to the Methods section.
Also, the authors mention that ‘many’ animals are residents – what proportion of the
ulation is ‘many?’ Is there a chance that individuals sighted only 3 times are not residents?
have clarified this point in the Methods. Approximately 250 of the dolphins observed
he study are residents. Of the 147 dolphins in the study, all were considered residents
he area.
Also, in order to understand what the HWI is, what the equation for weighted clustering
fficient was used, how community structure overlap was calculated, etc. all requires seeking
other separate references. It would help to include the equations or descriptions with the
tions.
thank the reviewer for this suggestion. We have added information on the HWI
ation and the justification for using this in the Methods and more information on
mmunity structure overlap in a table of network metrics.
I also believe there are different ways to quantify community or clique membership. Which
was used?
rder to make the metrics used more clear, we have created a table. The information
how community membership was quantified has been added to this table.
It’s not clear to me why network metrics are used to draw conclusions about the size of the
ups individuals are in when in each behavior state. Table 2 presents the average group
.
have addressed this in our Results section.
I’m not sure how the targeted removals results fit in. There is no discussion about why that
ht be biologically relevant. Maybe if individuals were more likely to be ‘removed’ in one state
pared to another it could have conservation implications.
There is no clear motivation for the simulated knock-out experiments. The text lacks
tivation for conducting simulations on robustness to node removal from social networks in
erent behavioral activities. I recommend removing these experiments as their relevance for
paring networks is not convincing, in part because the authors fail to justify their goals but
o because their findings seem to be not very biologically informative. Node removal
ulations are very useful alternatives to the logistically challenging experimental interventions
essary to test specific hypothesis in animal social structure (e.g. Flack et al. 2006 Nature),
to predict consequences of ecological networks to species extinction (e.g. Memmot et al.
4 Proc. R. Soc.). They are also useful to predict how transmission of quantities is affected by
removal of elements in the networked system (e.g. information flow in societies) which is
ticularly relevant in man-made networks designed for optimum flow (such as power grids,
ort connections). But removal experiments are not strictly relevant for comparing animal
ial networks in different behavioral contexts; here they add little more than methods, and
ults that are hard to interpret biologically.
agree with the assessment from both reviewers, and have removed the robustness
lysis from the paper as it does not fit in with the biological relevance of the rest of the
er.
I don’t understand what is meant by the argument that setting the threshold at 3 maintains
nificant patterns of association’ does this mean if you increased or decreased the sighting
shold there were no longer preferred associations?
sightings threshold of 3 is the minimum where preferred association patterns show.
ill still show preferential associations at a higher sighting thresholds until there are
few dolphins in the networks that there are no links whatsoever. We have changed the
rding of this sentence and clarified this process in the Methods.
Also, the justification for this threshold should be in the methods, not the discussion.
Discussion needs some rephrasing. I strongly recommend removing the 4 first paragraphs.
observation threshold issue when calculating association indices has been extensively
cussed elsewhere (e.g. Whitehead 2008, Croft et al. 2008) and is not a strong start for the
cussion of this manuscript. It is truly an important issue, but does not deserve this much
ntion in the discussion: please keep it straight to the point and present this issue in the
thods section.
have removed most of the text, but have placed some justification in the methods,
tightened the language.
The discussion of ecological factors that could be underlying some of these results is
resting, but more discussion could be given to why the purported differences between
works from different behavior states are biologically relevant.
I strongly suggest the authors to rephrase the manuscript to focus on the biological meaning
heir findings.
have modified the discussion to incorporate more about the biological relevance of
analysis.
Emphasis on the methods. The manuscript overstates the importance of network methods
so buries the main question addressed.
This is clear even in the title.
have reframed the manuscript in each section to more clearly focus on the intent of
study. We also changed the title to reflect more accurately what we believe the intent
he study is.
The motivation for the work and the interpretation of its findings can be improved
ressing the following questions: how does our understanding of the social structure (here
en by the network topology) changes when accounting for the behavioral context of social
tionships? How much information about the social patterns is lost when lumping social data
ected during different behavioral contexts?
thank the reviewer very much for this suggestion and we believe that we have
amed the introduction and discussion to address these questions more clearly.
Moreover, to reach a wide audience, this manuscript needs to be contextualized in a
ader background, beyond its importance to cetacean studies. In addition to Madden et al.
9, I recommend consider the following manuscripts and references therein: Lusseau 2007
sOne, Barret et al. 2012 Phil. Trans. B., Goldenberg et al. 2014
1016/j.anbehav.2014.07.002.
have incorporated the suggested manuscripts (and relevant sources within) into our
nuscript.
The methods section is long, overuses network jargon and contain too many network
trics.
have replaced shorthand network names with the full wording.
This section [methods] can be summarized. The “network construction” section is hard to
sp.
have modified and reduced the text in the Networks Construction section and made it
re legible for the non-Networks reader.
The description of the permutation tests is incomplete and out of place.
have moved the description of the permutation tests and described them more fully.
The “network analysis” section contains too many network metrics (some of them,
ecially the node-based ones, are related) and does not contain a clear biological motivation
using them. While the authors put much effort in explaining how the metrics are calculated,
y forgot the essential: to convince the reader why they are relevant proxies to answer the
posed question. The authors could describe metrics briefly and reference to one of several
ers that define them properly (e.g. Newman 2003, Boccaletti et al. 2006 Phys. Rep.).
the reviewer suggested, we put the metrics in a table to allow the reader to easily refer
hem. We included a description of each metric and a point about why each one is
logically relevant.
More importantly, please state clearly why one would expect these metrics to vary across
avioral states, and why such variation matter.
presentation of results should be improved. First, the results and discussion contain
ufficient biological interpretation of the numerical results.
5L10-23: Please state clearly what the differences in the network metrics actually mean for
dolphins. How do you interpret these numerical variations when dolphins are traveling,
ding or socializing?
have addressed this with the hypotheses we added to the Introduction and explained
y these variations are important to our analysis. We also used the hypotheses to
erpret these results biologically in the Results and Discussion sections.
In these sections we see overuse of jargon and acronyms that diminish the readability of the
(e.g. referring to the networks as “Nt, Ns, Nf” instead of a clearer statement of their
aning). For the same reason, the tables are hard to grasp.
thank the reviewer for pointing out the above points about the jargon and acronyms.
have modified the language throughout the document to make it much more readable
clear.
Second, I suggest plotting the results for each network instead of presenting them in tables.
ce the 95% confidence intervals are generated with the null models, the plots of the
erences between networks will be much more intuitive and visually appealing.
en that we analyzed the networks for several different metrics, we felt that by plotting
results there would be too many graphs. We instead chose to present statistical
nificance in a table rather than using pictures.
Third, the Table 1 lacks very important information: the results of the permuted data.
tistical significance does not necessarily mean biological significance, thus in addition to the
alues, we need to see how large/small the empirical mean, SD and CV and in comparison to
permuted data.
2L9: The permutation tests need to be interpreted properly. Table 1 does not give us enough
rmation to judge if there is a biological relevant difference between network types or
ween empirical and permuted values.
have updated the table to include the information that we neglected to add.
Finally because social analyses as data-hungry, a summary of the sampling effort (number
ampling occasions, sighted groups, group sizes, mean proportion of photo-identified
viduals in the groups etc.) should be organized in a simple table.
have added this information to the Methods.
P3L36: remove “In general”; networks always consist of sets of interacting nodes
have removed the wording.
P3L41: remove “and represents the spatial association between the corresponding
ects”. This is not true for all networks, for instance coauthorship networks, social media, gene
networks etc.
have modified the wording accordingly.
P4L6: see also Lusseau 2007 PlosOne, Barret et al. 2012 Phil. Trans. B., Goldenberg et al.
4 Anim. Behav.
have referenced these studies thanks to the recommendation of the reviewer.
P4-18: This seems to be the main point of the manuscript, and I recommend improving it
sidering the following ideas. It is true that networks are likely to have different topologies
ng data collected in different behavioral contexts. This is because the most common proxy
social relationship among animals is co-occurrence in groups which assumes that group
mbers must interact socially (the “gambit of group” hypothesis, see Whitehead & Dufault
9). Thus the use of association indices (which estimates the proportion of time individuals
seen together in a group) is common practice for defining the links of animal social
works. However, this may be a coarse way of defining social relationships, potentially biasing
interpretation of the overall social structure (i.e. the network topology). One way to
rcome this issue is accounting for the behavioral context in which the group-membership
a was collected. By analyzing the structure of social networks in different contexts
arately, one may achieve a more realistic portray of the social structure.
have updated the manuscript to include the Gambit of the Group.
P5L15: “fruitfully” is vague
have modified the language accordingly.
P5L22: In addition to list of methods, please state what questions they help you to answer.
putting the metrics in the table, and explaining the biological relevance for each, we
ieve we have addressed this appropriately.
P6L6-15: the use of terms “group” and “sighting” for defining the same thing is confusing,
ase try to be clearer.
have updated the language to be clearer.
P7L53: Because the network edges are the association indices, how biased they are when
uding individuals observed three times? Please briefly discuss how such low sample size
cts your confidence on your measure of social relationship that builds the network
have added information into the Methods to address this point.
P9L8: Assortativity can happen not only based on node degree but on other node attributes.
ocial networks for instance nodes can have higher probability to interact according to some
ss they belong to, such as sex, age and so on. P12L20-27: What does the assortativity
ults mean?
2L20-27: What does the assortativity results mean
agree with this assessment, and since we do not have the class information (which
noted in the Methods), we have removed assortativity from the manuscript.
P18L41: replace “population structure” by “social structure”
have changed the wording accordingly.
P1848-51: How can you interpret the removal of individuals biologically? Why is important
t the global topology of network generated when dolphins are feeding is more of less robust
he simulated removal of individuals than when they are traveling? If the real example of an
ividual removal” is death of permanent emigration, would that matter if at that particular time
individual was feeding, socializing or traveling? As stated above, I do not think these
ulations are relevant for this manuscript.
mentioned above, we have removed the robustness analysis from the manuscript. We
ee that although from a network perspective it is interesting, the biological relevance
ubious.
P19L3: Accounting for behavioral state can be indeed relevant, but it depends on the
stion asked.
agree, and we have modified this sentence.
P19L6: replace “population structure” by “social structure”
have changed the wording accordingly.
P19L13-18: The last sentence is unclear: what are the conceptual and methodological
ances in network science? How exactly your work contribute to that?
have removed the last sentence as it is no longer relevant given the changes to the
nuscript.
P30L18: Are you sure the permutation test gives you ‘covariance’? Do you mean “CV”? In
case you are testing differences between Coefficient of Variance of HWI in empirical and
muted data, not covariance.
nks to the reviewer for noting this error. We have fixed this in the table.
pendix B
ar Editor—
ank you for the additional comments from the reviewer; they were very helpful in
ding our revision. We believe it is now suitable for publication in RSOS.
have also addressed the general comments about the sections needed in the manuscript
or to the References section.
cerely yours,
fanie Gazda
hics statement
s information was moved from the Funding section and put into its own section.
ata accessibility
a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
plementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
essibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
uld also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
h as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
osited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
nuscript and included in the reference list.
ding acceptance of the manuscript we can upload the data files to Dryad. Details
arding the data used to construct the networks and the software used for the network
statistical analysis of the data have been added to the section.
ompeting interests
uthors’ contributions
cknowledgements
unding statement
ese sections are in the manuscript in the suggested format.
iewer: 1
mments to the Author(s)
ile the authors did address a number of my concerns, I still have a number of questions and
o previous reviews that call for better biological justification and re-framing. I feel this
dy could be a much better contribution if framed differently.
The introduction would be considerably stronger if it focused on why social structure might
different depending on behavioral context and focus less on the methodology, which can be
wed as a means for testing biologically meaningful hypotheses. The authors bring up the
ellent point that this approach may be particularly important in species exhibiting fission-
on dynamics. The paper could be framed in terms of how fission-fusion species manage the
ts and benefits of grouping and use this to make predictions about differences in social
cture. The authors touch on this in the discussion and make some excellent points, but it
uld be moved into the introduction to justify the study.
cussion: Move some of the discussion of costs and benefits of grouping and fission fusion to
intro to set up the importance of the study.
would like to thank the reviewer for their comments. Based on their suggestion, we
ved the information from the discussion into the introduction. While we agree that the
er is beneficial towards understanding socioecological dynamics in fission-fusion
ieties, we also feel that the paper has merit as a way to apply network analysis methods
hese societies.
hypotheses provided are more predictions and the theoretical basis for why each prediction
ade is unclear. Tying these predictions into cost/benefits of grouping and socioecological
ory would make a stronger case. Theory behind predictions for foraging networks is touched
but should be extended to all networks. Also, why and how do you think the behavioral
works will differ from the overall network?
have clarified these hypotheses in the manuscript.
stract: How do you know that these weighted activity networks “accurately” show social
erns. If you already know what they are why did you do this study. Also, how do you know
the overall network is not “accurate” and behavioral networks are?
have revised the wording in the abstract to clarify this point.
49: Edges represent connections between individuals – they don’t necessarily have to be
ociations – could be direct interactions or could be home range overlap.
s is true. In this study we do mean associations. We have clarified the wording in the
t.
30: Not sure how these examples fit in. Also, I didn’t think baboons were considered a
ion-fusion species – they live in stable social groups that fission only occasionally (also
ch species of baboon is this study on)?
e baboons in the study are hamadryas baboons. This has been added to the text. We
e arranged the text to be more clear on these examples.
51: Presence in a group represents a real association since association is defined by shared
up membership – it might not represent a biologically meaningful relationship though.
s is the gambit of the group, which we have already addressed in the manuscript, as
cussed by others (Whitehead and Dufault, 1999, Franks et al. 2010).
9: Here and throughout, you are talking about associations (shared group membership) not
ractions (e.g. rubbing or contact swimming).
agree with this and have clarified this throughout the text.
32: This what suggests that…
ause costs of locomotion are so low, it's one less variable in studying fission-fusion
ups; and grouping (or lack thereof) is more likely due to factors other than locomotion
ts. We have clarified this in the text.
10: weaker associations compared to what?
ociations are weaker in Shark Bay for travelling groups than for foraging or socializing.
have clarified this in the text.
18: Regarding my previous comment about predominant group sampling, the cited studies
’t look at association by behavioral state so it is not so much a methodological concern there,
it is in this case since the whole point is that social structure might vary based on
avior. However, in the revision and response to reviewers you use at least once the term
havioral context’, which makes a lot of sense to me. The network membership was assigned
ed on the behavioral context of the sighting, not the behavioral state of the individuals. Make
clear.
aracteristics of the individual’s group and association patterns across multiple group
ples will be influenced primarily by the predominant activity—thus the effect will be to
roduce some ‘noise’ in the data and reduce the chance of significant differences between
work types. Behavioral context is defined as our assessment, specifically that more than
% of the individuals have to participate in the behavior (predominant activity).
m now confused though since the methods state that the definition of group is based on the
m chain rule AND dolphins interacting socially or with coordinated behavioural activity,
ch suggests all the dolphins (not 50%) have to be behaving the same way in order to be in the
up.
pologize for this error. One of the co-authors added it without my knowledge. I have
oved this from the manuscript.
thods: Thank you for adding information regarding who was included in the study and
pling effort in terms of number of overall sightings and identifiable individuals; however
re is still no information on number of sightings per individual.
e information regarding the number of sightings per individual has been added in the
thods section.
42: I’m confused. You say “If a pair was already connected by an edge, its weight was
remented by one.” And “with the weight on each edge representing the number of times the
responding dolphins were seen together.” But then “We used a half-weight index as a
asure of strength of association between dolphins.” And “In our analyses, we used the HWI
ues as edge weights rather than the number of sightings.” Why not just say that the edge
ghts were HWI?
s has been clarified in the Methods section and hopefully it eliminates any confusion.
20: How did you test whether edge weights were unaffected by the variation in the average
up sizes in the sightings data? Also, what about the influence of network size (number of
tices) on network metrics. A degree of 9 out of 10 might be interpreted differently than a
ree of 9 out of 50 even though both equal 9. Furthermore, in table 3 it looks like the number
ertices in your networks is correlated with the number of sightings used to create those
works. Do those differences remain if you subsample sightings so that each behavior network
uilt with the same number of sightings?
ollows from how the networks are constructed that the edge weights are unaffected by
variations in the group sizes in the sightings data. A change in group size contributes
edges to a network but does not alter the weights of the ones already there. It does not
ow, however, that the network metrics are also unaffected as a result, as we had
ginally stated in the paper. We have modified the text to reflect this.
garding influence of network size on the network metrics, an average degree of 9 out of
is connected to a higher fraction of individuals than one with versus an average degree
out of 50. Yes, the number of vertices in the networks seems to be correlated with the
mber of sightings, but it is not at all obvious how one could subsample sightings so that
h behavior network is built from the same number of sightings, and any such attempt
uld be entirely arbitrary. We would like to point out that it is customary in network
rature to compare disparate networks, i.e., networks with differing sizes and belonging
erent categories, such as Social, Information, Technological, and Biological networks.
example, Table 8.1 on page 237 of (Newman, 2010) compares network metrics across
works with number of vertices as small as 92 and as large as 203549046.
32: Do you mean that that was the lowest number where you detected preferred associates?
, this is what we meant and we clarified this in the text.
10: Regarding the inclusion threshold: Wey et al (2008) found that certain metrics were more
ust to removals than others and that data for weighted degree could only be reduced by 10-
% before it was significantly different. Also, you cite Gero et al. (2005) as having used a
shold of 3. I’m confused as I thought they used a minimum sighting threshold of 30.
ank you to the reviewer for pointing out the error. We have removed the reference
ordingly. Our choice of threshold (of three) is also in line with the heuristic of Wey et al
08) in that the data are only reduced by less than 10-12%.
: Network metrics is a better term than network concepts
agree, and we have changed the text accordingly throughout.
: Were these truly random Erdos-Renyi networks, or were they modified? I’m guessing
dified if done in SOCPROG.
they were not truly random Erdos-Renyi networks, but built from the original network
h a fixed fraction of edges randomly rearranged.
ults: Did you actually compare metrics between networks? Your language sounds like you
e.g. conclusions comparing clustering coefficients. Reviewer 2 made some excellent
gestions about looking at the overlap of 95% confidence intervals or using two-sample
mutation tests to compare network metrics. I think as I understand it right now you are very
ited in what you conclude about ‘differences’ between networks. Without more direct
parisons your conclusions are limited when they don’t have to be.
did not compare the network metrics across networks using any statistical test, but we
culated the correlations between the association matrices using Mantel test and they
re significantly correlated.
l34: Why do you think the overlap between the overall network and the behavior networks is
aller than the overlap between the behavior networks themselves? That seems interesting
en the behavior networks are subsets of the overall network. Is there a way to compare the
rlap statistically? Maybe the differences are not that meaningful?
s not clear as to why the overlap between the overall network and the behavior networks
maller than that between the behavior networks. We believe that it might be due to the
tle nature of the random walk based procedure we use for community detection. Our
parisons of the overlap across networks are qualitative. We are not aware of a method
comparing the overlap statistically, but that would be a fruitful avenue for future work.
l20: How are you using the term group here? Connected during sighting by 10m chain
? A network component? A network community? If the first one then how do you know if
y are ‘weakly connected?’ Same question regarding the use of the term groups in table 1,
mber of connected components, biological significance.
clarified the wording on the table make it more clear.
know they are weakly connected because they have no preferential associations and
ength is no different than from a random model. This is already in the manuscript. We
o know this because there are more connected components (so some dolphins have no
nections at all with others in the Forage network), and average group size is small. We
e added this to the manuscript.
l6: I guess there could be local enhancement going on, but it is hard to tease apart whether
dolphins would be there for the fish regardless of whether other individuals were there.
reed, which is why playback experiments may tease this out.
l11: Either explain the playback experiments further or leave out.
have clarified this in the text.
l25: More complex than what?
eir social systems are more complex than previously thought. We have clarified this in
text, and we also moved this to the Introduction.
Society Open
