RAD sequencing resolves fine-scale population structure in
a benthic invertebrate: with implications for understanding
phenotypic plasticity
David L. J. Vendrami, Luca Telesca, Hannah Weigand, Martina Weiss, Katie Fawcett,
Katrin Lehman, M. S. Clark, Florian Leese, Carrie McMinn, Heather Moore and Joseph I.
Hoffman
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160548.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160548
Review timeline
Original submission: 26 July 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 20 October 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 January 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160548.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Gordana Rašic)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Raw sequencing and genotyping data are not accessible. Morphological measurements should be
in the Supplemental material.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Manuscript ID: RSOS-160548
Title: “High throughput sequencing reveals fine-scale population structure and phenotypic
plasticity in a benthic invertebrate”
Vendrami and colleagues examine the extent of genetic and morphological structuring in a
marine bivalve Pecten maximus using two marker systems (microsatellites and ddRAD-
generated SNPs) and indices of shell shape and color. The authors report a lack of genetic
structuring among samples, despite considerable morphological structuring, and argue that their
findings support high morphological plasticity in this species. They also indicate the greater
power of genome-wide SNPs in comparison to several microsatellites when detecting genetic
structure.
In my opinion, the study does not fully exploit the genome-wide SNP and morphological data, as
it is restricted around a comparison between different marker systems. Moreover, the main
conclusions are based on one analytical approach that inherently underestimates the level of
genetic structuring. I list several issues that should be addressed and offer some ideas for the
analyses that could strengthen authors’ arguments. Therefore, I recommend a Major Revision -
Resubmission.
Marine invertebrates seem to be a challenging model system, where it is often difficult to
disentangle the processes that underlie the patterns of genetic variation. Genetic structure is
commonly not detected across hundreds of kilometers (e.g. Miller et al. 2016 Mol Ecol), and the
main issue is to decipher if this observation is an artifact of the low-resolution markers.
Major points:
1) Authors should use simulations (e.g. POWSIM at least for msats) to test if their markers
have power to detect genetic structure. I agree that >10,000 genome-wide SNPs should be
sufficient to pick up signals of restricted gene flow under some scenarios, but we come to the
second issue:
2) It is not clear to me how FST values for msats were not significantly different from zero
despite being relatively high (>0.01) in many cases? A multi-allelic marker system (3-16 In your
msat dataset) inherently produces lower FST values than a biallelic marker system (SNP), yet
your FST heatmap and tables indicate the values are very similar between the two marker
systems...How do you explain this?
3) STRUCTURE is a clustering approach that generally underestimates the “true” extent of
genetic structuring (i.e. it detects the “uppermost” level of hierarchical structuring). Therefore,
there could be more structuring in your dataset that is being missed. I think at least another
approach for structure inference should be employed, for a null hypothesis not to be rejected (see
suggestions below).
4) De novo RAD tag assembly requires iteration over multiple parameters (-M, -m, -n)
before an optimal combination is chosen. Essentially, authors need to demonstrate the robustness
of their chosen parameter set (by doing sensitivity analysis where multiple runs with different
parameters are assessed in terms of: the number of tags, heterozygosity, etc). A table that
summarizes these key quality indicators under different parameters should be an integral part of
the manuscript. The study is not reproducible without such information.
3
5) If absence of structure is confirmed with more than one analytical approach, what
mechanisms, apart from high gene flow can be responsible? Would you always detect structure if
local selection is present? ...Local adaptation could occur even under high gene flow, and you
could be missing genetic information for a few key selected loci that underlie the measured
phenotypes.....You mention some of these points, but a more detailed discussion is needed.
Suggestions:
1) Methods like PCA or DAPC would be suitable for inferring genetic structuring in a
genome-wide SNP dataset. In this case, there is no need to remove highly linked markers –
retaining more markers should be useful in a situation where genetic structure is indeed weak...
2) Morphological variation (individual PC scores) can be modeled in terms of individual
genetic (e.g. PC or DAPC scores) and spatial PC scores. This would be a more explicit test of the
phenotypic plasticity hypothesis and would strengthen the conclusions.
3) It would be straightforward to do a Mantel test for individual-based genetic (SNP) and
geographic distances. There are several individual-based distance measures that can be used (e.g.
Roussett’s a). This way, potentially biased FST estimates (due to very small sample sizes) are
circumvented. Estimates from a small sample (<=6 individuals) are highly dependent on
whether they capture the population diversity (i.e. if they are indeed the representative
population samples), and this can be very species-specific and often difficult to confirm.
Minor points:
Highly species-specific jargon (e.g. spat, byssus, line 100) and colloquialism (shallow genetic
structure, line 67) could be avoided – or defined/explained.
End of comments.
Gordana Rasic
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, "Raw reads are currently being deposited into the Short Read Archive.
723 SNP and microsatellite genotypes are currently being submitted to DRYAD"
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
4
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Review of Vendrami et al “High throughput sequencing reveals fine-scale population structure
and phenotypic plasticity in a benthic invertebrate”
Vendrami et al are comparing two molecular markers, i.e. microsatellites and SNPs, in their
power to resolve population structure across scallop populations along the coast of Northern
Ireland. The study is well conducted and the manuscript very well written. I have only minor
comments on the statistical analysis of the morphometric analysis and the lack of a direct
comparison between morphological and genetic distances.
Introduction
I understand that the focus of the paper was on comparing SNPs with microsatellites, but there
have been several other molecular markers used to test the presence of phenotypic
plasticity/detect population structure. I think there should be a reference to these alternative
markers in the Introduction.
Materials and methods
It is common statistical procedure that in a PCA, the minimal number of subjects should be about
five times the number of variables being analysed. However, if I understand correctly, PCA was
performed on 84 descriptors per 180 specimens (i.e. 9x20). To ensure robustness of the PCA
results, I recommend that the number of harmonics should be reduced to 8, resulting in 32
variables (descriptors), which will in my experience suffice in describing shape variation.
Results
Results of genetic and morphological analyses are presented completely separated, so the reader
is a bit of a loss why the two aspects were actually investigated in this study. It would be
interesting, for example, to examine the relationships between genetic and morphological
distances between populations.
I also do not understand the rationale in performing MANOVA on PC-axes rather than the raw
values, i.e. harmonics. Please explain.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160548)
19-Sep-2016
Dear Mr Vendrami,
The editors assigned to your paper ("High throughput sequencing reveals fine-scale population
structure and phenotypic plasticity in a benthic invertebrate") have now received comments from
reviewers. Both referees are positive about publication but raise a number of substantive issues
that will need to be dealt with in an improved manuscript. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below
(not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 12-Oct-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
5
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160548
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
6
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Steve Brown
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Manuscript ID: RSOS-160548
Title: “High throughput sequencing reveals fine-scale population structure and phenotypic
plasticity in a benthic invertebrate”
Vendrami and colleagues examine the extent of genetic and morphological structuring in a
marine bivalve Pecten maximus using two marker systems (microsatellites and ddRAD-
generated SNPs) and indices of shell shape and color. The authors report a lack of genetic
structuring among samples, despite considerable morphological structuring, and argue that their
findings support high morphological plasticity in this species. They also indicate the greater
power of genome-wide SNPs in comparison to several microsatellites when detecting genetic
structure.
In my opinion, the study does not fully exploit the genome-wide SNP and morphological data, as
it is restricted around a comparison between different marker systems. Moreover, the main
conclusions are based on one analytical approach that inherently underestimates the level of
genetic structuring. I list several issues that should be addressed and offer some ideas for the
analyses that could strengthen authors’ arguments. Therefore, I recommend a Major Revision -
Resubmission.
Marine invertebrates seem to be a challenging model system, where it is often difficult to
disentangle the processes that underlie the patterns of genetic variation. Genetic structure is
7
commonly not detected across hundreds of kilometers (e.g. Miller et al. 2016 Mol Ecol), and the
main issue is to decipher if this observation is an artifact of the low-resolution markers.
Major points:
1) Authors should use simulations (e.g. POWSIM at least for msats) to test if their markers
have power to detect genetic structure. I agree that >10,000 genome-wide SNPs should be
sufficient to pick up signals of restricted gene flow under some scenarios, but we come to the
second issue:
2) It is not clear to me how FST values for msats were not significantly different from zero
despite being relatively high (>0.01) in many cases? A multi-allelic marker system (3-16 In your
msat dataset) inherently produces lower FST values than a biallelic marker system (SNP), yet
your FST heatmap and tables indicate the values are very similar between the two marker
systems...How do you explain this?
3) STRUCTURE is a clustering approach that generally underestimates the “true” extent of
genetic structuring (i.e. it detects the “uppermost” level of hierarchical structuring). Therefore,
there could be more structuring in your dataset that is being missed. I think at least another
approach for structure inference should be employed, for a null hypothesis not to be rejected (see
suggestions below).
4) De novo RAD tag assembly requires iteration over multiple parameters (-M, -m, -n)
before an optimal combination is chosen. Essentially, authors need to demonstrate the robustness
of their chosen parameter set (by doing sensitivity analysis where multiple runs with different
parameters are assessed in terms of: the number of tags, heterozygosity, etc). A table that
summarizes these key quality indicators under different parameters should be an integral part of
the manuscript. The study is not reproducible without such information.
5) If absence of structure is confirmed with more than one analytical approach, what
mechanisms, apart from high gene flow can be responsible? Would you always detect structure if
local selection is present? ...Local adaptation could occur even under high gene flow, and you
could be missing genetic information for a few key selected loci that underlie the measured
phenotypes.....You mention some of these points, but a more detailed discussion is needed.
Suggestions:
1) Methods like PCA or DAPC would be suitable for inferring genetic structuring in a
genome-wide SNP dataset. In this case, there is no need to remove highly linked markers –
retaining more markers should be useful in a situation where genetic structure is indeed weak...
2) Morphological variation (individual PC scores) can be modeled in terms of individual
genetic (e.g. PC or DAPC scores) and spatial PC scores. This would be a more explicit test of the
phenotypic plasticity hypothesis and would strengthen the conclusions.
3) It would be straightforward to do a Mantel test for individual-based genetic (SNP) and
geographic distances. There are several individual-based distance measures that can be used (e.g.
Roussett’s a). This way, potentially biased FST estimates (due to very small sample sizes) are
circumvented. Estimates from a small sample (<=6 individuals) are highly dependent on
whether they capture the population diversity (i.e. if they are indeed the representative
population samples), and this can be very species-specific and often difficult to confirm.
Minor points:
Highly species-specific jargon (e.g. spat, byssus, line 100) and colloquialism (shallow genetic
structure, line 67) could be avoided – or defined/explained.
End of comments.
Gordana Rasic
8
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Review of Vendrami et al “High throughput sequencing reveals fine-scale population structure
and phenotypic plasticity in a benthic invertebrate”
Vendrami et al are comparing two molecular markers, i.e. microsatellites and SNPs, in their
power to resolve population structure across scallop populations along the coast of Northern
Ireland. The study is well conducted and the manuscript very well written. I have only minor
comments on the statistical analysis of the morphometric analysis and the lack of a direct
comparison between morphological and genetic distances.
Introduction
I understand that the focus of the paper was on comparing SNPs with microsatellites, but there
have been several other molecular markers used to test the presence of phenotypic
plasticity/detect population structure. I think there should be a reference to these alternative
markers in the Introduction.
Materials and methods
It is common statistical procedure that in a PCA, the minimal number of subjects should be about
five times the number of variables being analysed. However, if I understand correctly, PCA was
performed on 84 descriptors per 180 specimens (i.e. 9x20). To ensure robustness of the PCA
results, I recommend that the number of harmonics should be reduced to 8, resulting in 32
variables (descriptors), which will in my experience suffice in describing shape variation.
Results
Results of genetic and morphological analyses are presented completely separated, so the reader
is a bit of a loss why the two aspects were actually investigated in this study. It would be
interesting, for example, to examine the relationships between genetic and morphological
distances between populations.
I also do not understand the rationale in performing MANOVA on PC-axes rather than the raw
values, i.e. harmonics. Please explain.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160548)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-160548.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Gordana Rašic)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
9
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
-
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
Authors have thoroughly addressed comments from both referees. I am glad the authors have
found the contribution of both reviewers valuable, leading to a significantly improved
manuscript. I do not have any objections to recommend acceptance (as is).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160548.R1)
04-Jan-2017
Dear Mr Vendrami,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "ddRAD sequencing resolves fine-scale
population structure in a benthic invertebrate with implications for understanding phenotypic
plasticity" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
10
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
Authors have thoroughly addressed comments from both referees. I am glad the authors have
found the contribution of both reviewers valuable, leading to a significantly improved
manuscript. I do not have any objections to recommend acceptance (as is).
we have extended our analysis performing a power analysis and a Principal Component Analysis
PCA) on the two genetic datasets, modelling morphological variability in terms of genetic variability
hrough the construction of GLMMs, testing the robustness of our ddRAD de novo assembly via
sensitivity analysis carried out on the three main parameters –m, -M and –n and re-performing the
morphometric analysis after having reduced the number of harmonics. New paragraphs have been
consequently written in the Methods, Results and Discussion sections and have been accompanied
with new figures and tables. We have also expanded our introduction following the reviewers’
ecommendations. We believe that the quality of our manuscript has greatly improved and that
support for our conclusions has strengthened. We are therefore grateful to the reviewers for their
constructive suggestions. Here we present detailed answers to each one of the reviewers’
comments.
19-Sep-2016
Dear Mr Vendrami,
The editors assigned to your paper ("High throughput sequencing reveals fine-scale population structure
and phenotypic plasticity in a benthic invertebrate") have now received comments from reviewers. Both
eferees are positive about publication but raise a number of substantive issues that will need to be dealt
with in an improved manuscript. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and
Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 12-Oct-2016). If we do not hear
rom you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional
circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in advance.We do not allow
multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to fully address all of the comments at this
stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original
eviewers for assessment. If the original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your Author Centre,
where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions." Under "Actions," click on
Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to denote a revision. Revise your
manuscript and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the referees and
upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to document how you
have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In order to expedite the processing
of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response.
n addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your revised
manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
Ethics statement (if applicable)
f your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received, including the
name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail whether informed
consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all permissions, licences and/or
approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
Data accessibility
t is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as supplementary
nformation or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data accessibility section should state
where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section should also include details, where
possible of where to access other relevant research materials such as statistical tools, protocols, software
database, accession number and link to the DOI for all data from the article that have been made publicly
available. Data sets that have been deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be
appropriately cited in the manuscript and included in the reference list.
f you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify your current
submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160548
Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no competing
nterests.
Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions section which
ndividually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors should meet all of the following
criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and
nterpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3)
inal approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence alignments,
participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out the statistical analyses;
EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study, coordinated the study and helped
draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for publication.
Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship criteria.
Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look forward to
eceiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Steve Brown
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
Manuscript ID: RSOS-160548
Title: “High throughput sequencing reveals fine-scale population structure and phenotypic plasticity in a
benthic invertebrate”
Vendrami and colleagues examine the extent of genetic and morphological structuring in a marine bivalve
Pecten maximus using two marker systems (microsatellites and ddRAD-generated SNPs) and indices of
shell shape and color. The authors report a lack of genetic structuring among samples, despite
considerable morphological structuring, and argue that their findings support high morphological plasticity in
his species. They also indicate the greater power of genome-wide SNPs in comparison to several
microsatellites when detecting genetic structure.
n my opinion, the study does not fully exploit the genome-wide SNP and morphological data, as it is
estricted around a comparison between different marker systems. Moreover, the main conclusions are
based on one analytical approach that inherently underestimates the level of genetic structuring. I list
several issues that should be addressed and offer some ideas for the analyses that could strengthen
authors’ arguments. Therefore, I recommend a Major Revision - Resubmission.
Response 1: We centered much of our analysis around the comparison between traditional
microsatellite markers and a large SNP dataset generated by RAD sequencing as rather surprisingly
such a comparison is essentially absent from the literature. We focused on Fst comparisons, which
are a standard method and as far as we are aware do not inherently underestimate the strength of
structure. However, it is true that Structure can have difficulty detecting weak population structure,
a point that we make in our revised discussion. We concur that the manuscript could nonetheless
be expanded to include a number of additional analyses and have therefore explicitly followed the
eferees’ suggestions (see Responses 8 and 9).
Marine invertebrates seem to be a challenging model system, where it is often difficult to disentangle the
processes that underlie the patterns of genetic variation. Genetic structure is commonly not detected across
hundreds of kilometers (e.g. Miller et al. 2016 Mol Ecol), and the main issue is to decipher if this observation
s an artifact of the low-resolution markers.
Response 2: We have now included a power analysis at the suggestion of the referee and this
clearly shows that, although power is somewhat limited using the traditional markers, it is ample (in
he order of one!) with the SNP dataset (see Response 3). This strengthens our conclusion that the
SNPs are superior at detecting population structure and also indicates that, in cases where we do
not find genetic differences between populations, this cannot be due to a lack of power. We have
ncluded these results as an additional table and of course written relevant sections in the methods,
esults and discussion sections. We are grateful for the suggestion as this considerably
strengthens our arguments.
Major points:
1) Authors should use simulations (e.g. POWSIM at least for msats) to test if their markers have power
o detect genetic structure. I agree that >10,000 genome-wide SNPs should be sufficient to pick up signals
of restricted gene flow under some scenarios, but we come to the second issue:
Response 3: We have done this, and the resulting analyses show indeed that we have ample power
o detect genetic differences between populations using the SNP dataset (see Response 2 for
details). This has been included in our revised manuscript, which again is considerably improved as
a result of this helpful suggestion.
2) It is not clear to me how FST values for msats were not significantly different from zero despite being
elatively high (>0.01) in many cases? A multi-allelic marker system (3-16 In your msat dataset) inherently
produces lower FST values than a biallelic marker system (SNP), yet your FST heatmap and tables indicate
he values are very similar between the two marker systems...How do you explain this?
Response 4: From the heatmaps it can be seen that, although not all of the pairwise Fst values are
higher for SNPs, those involving Mulroy Bay are considerably higher. The Fst values themselves are
also shown in Supplementary Table 2. As stated in our discussion, such a pattern is to be expected,
partly due to homoplasy at the microsatellites (Coates et al 2009). The key point here is that the level
of significance is affected both by the number of markers (which influences the error variance in the
need not show a simple concurrence. We also do not agree with the referee that an Fst value of 0.01
s high. In fact, we would consider this to be rather low, although elsewhere, others have cautioned
against drawing inferences solely on the magnitude of Fst (Meirmans et al 2011).
3) STRUCTURE is a clustering approach that generally underestimates the “true” extent of genetic
structuring (i.e. it detects the “uppermost” level of hierarchical structuring). Therefore, there could be more
structuring in your dataset that is being missed. I think at least another approach for structure inference
should be employed, for a null hypothesis not to be rejected (see suggestions below).
Response 5: That depends partly on whether one chooses the maximal value of LnP(D), which
potentially captures even very small differences, or delta K, which selects for the uppermost level of
structure (see Evanno et al 2005). We did the former, so there is no reason to believe that we will
have missed some deeper level of structure. Nevertheless, we have included the additional analyses
he referee has suggested (see Response 8) Overall, this makes the paper somewhat longer but we
agree that it is nice to have additional lines of evidence in support of our conclusions so in many
espects this is an improvement.
4) De novo RAD tag assembly requires iteration over multiple parameters (-M, -m, -n) before an optimal
combination is chosen. Essentially, authors need to demonstrate the robustness of their chosen parameter
set (by doing sensitivity analysis where multiple runs with different parameters are assessed in terms of: the
number of tags, heterozygosity, etc). A table that summarizes these key quality indicators under different
parameters should be an integral part of the manuscript. The study is not reproducible without such
nformation.
Response 6: We have now explored the above parameters at the reviewer's request and tabulated
he results in the paper. Our results show that there are few differences among runs in which these
parameters are changed, both in terms of the number of markers obtained, and critically, the main
esult - i.e. that there is no population structure after excluding Mulroy Bay - does not change. This
has been written into the manuscript, and is a valuable addition as it shows that our results are
highly robust.
5) If absence of structure is confirmed with more than one analytical approach, what mechanisms, apart
rom high gene flow can be responsible? Would you always detect structure if local selection is present?
..Local adaptation could occur even under high gene flow, and you could be missing genetic information for
a few key selected loci that underlie the measured phenotypes.....You mention some of these points, but a
more detailed discussion is needed.
Response 7: We have now confirmed the absence of structure, both by adding the PCA analysis as
suggested by the referee and by confirming that our power to detect population structure is very
high based on the SNP dataset. We already had a fairly detailed and lengthy discussion of the
possibility that phenotypic differences could potentially reflect loci that are not captured in our
marker panel. We are unclear exactly what more the referee would like us to say, as we believe we
have already covered the key points. Nevertheless, we have expanded and modified this section.
Suggestions:
1) Methods like PCA or DAPC would be suitable for inferring genetic structuring in a genome-wide SNP
dataset. In this case, there is no need to remove highly linked markers – retaining more markers should be
useful in a situation where genetic structure is indeed weak...
suggestion of the reviewer. These reveal a lack of discernable structure with microsatellites and a
clear separation of Mulroy Bay from the other populations in the case of SNPs, as shown in the
igure below. This is strong support for our original conclusions. We have written new sections in
he methods, results and discussion sections an included an additional figure.
2) Morphological variation (individual PC scores) can be modeled in terms of individual genetic (e.g. PC
or DAPC scores) and spatial PC scores. This would be a more explicit test of the phenotypic plasticity
hypothesis and would strengthen the conclusions.
Response 9: We have done this, specifically constructing GLMMs with population as a random
effect, the response variables being the morphological PCs and the predictor variables being the
genetic PCs 1 and 2 based on the SNP dataset. As this test was aimed at testing for phenotypic
plasticity, we excluded Mulroy Bay from this analysis, as it was genetically differentiated at the
SNPs. No significant relationship was found between shell shape PC1 and SNP-based PCs, while for
he colour index a weak but significant value was found for PC1 and a not significant value was
obtained for PC2. We have included these results and discuss them in the context of our broader
indings.
3) It would be straightforward to do a Mantel test for individual-based genetic (SNP) and geographic
distances. There are several individual-based distance measures that can be used (e.g. Roussett’s a). This
way, potentially biased FST estimates (due to very small sample sizes) are circumvented. Estimates from a
small sample (<=6 individuals) are highly dependent on whether they capture the population diversity (i.e. if
hey are indeed the representative population samples), and this can be very species-specific and often
difficult to confirm.
Response 10: We do not concur, as treating each individual as an independent data point when in
act individuals within populations are non-independent (because they were sampled from the same
ocality) amounts to pseudoreplication. It is therefore appropriate to do the Mantel test at the
population level, which is what the vast majority of studies do. In any case, we cannot imagine that
much could be gained by repeating this analysis with individuals as it is clear to us from the Fst
values, the Structure results and the PCA results that there is no structure among the populations
after excluding Mulroy Bay.
Minor points:
Highly species-specific jargon (e.g. spat, byssus, line 100) and colloquialism (shallow genetic structure, line
Response 11: 'spat' and 'byssus' are not jargon - they are specific technical terms with a precise
meaning. We have changed 'shallow' to 'weak', although to us these words have essentially the
same meaning.
End of comments.
Gordana Rasic
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_8
Review of Vendrami et al “High throughput sequencing reveals fine-scale population structure and
phenotypic plasticity in a benthic invertebrate”
Vendrami et al are comparing two molecular markers, i.e. microsatellites and SNPs, in their power to
esolve population structure across scallop populations along the coast of Northern Ireland. The study is
well conducted and the manuscript very well written. I have only minor comments on the statistical analysis
of the morphometric analysis and the lack of a direct comparison between morphological and genetic
distances.
Response 12: Excellent - thank you for the positive appraisal.
ntroduction
understand that the focus of the paper was on comparing SNPs with microsatellites, but there have been
several other molecular markers used to test the presence of phenotypic plasticity/detect population
structure. I think there should be a reference to these alternative markers in the Introduction.
Response 13: This is a good point. We also note in the introduction that other genetic markers like
AFLPs have also been used for the same purpose.
Materials and methods
t is common statistical procedure that in a PCA, the minimal number of subjects should be about five times
he number of variables being analysed. However, if I understand correctly, PCA was performed on 84
descriptors per 180 specimens (i.e. 9x20). To ensure robustness of the PCA results, I recommend that the
number of harmonics should be reduced to 8, resulting in 32 variables (descriptors), which will in my
experience suffice in describing shape variation.
Response 14: The advantage of using Elliptic Fourier approaches on shells outlines is that any
shape can be virtually fitted provided that the number of harmonics is large and the outline
sufficiently smooth between the sampled points (Bonhomme et al. 2014; Kuhl, F. P. & Giardina
1982). Scallop shells have not outlines as round as other bivalve species (i.e. mussel, clams) since
hey present an hinge area with edges forming almost right angles, features requiring usually a high
number of harmonics to be incorporated in the numerical signature (Kuhl & Giardina 1982; Giardina
& Kuhl 1977). Moreover, the only study available on scallops, to the best of our knowledge, using
Fourier analysis, showed that only the first 24 harmonics were able to provide a sufficiently good
shape reconstruction (Kenchington & Full 1993).
The critical question in outline analysis is about the correct number of harmonics to be retained in
order to provide both an acceptable shape reconstruction and robust statistical conclusions.
Unfortunately, no objective criteria exist so far, since they uniquely depends on the scope of the
study and the level of detail the analyst wants to achieve (Bonhomme et al. 2014). However, different
approaches that can be of help in this selection have been proposed (i.e. shape reconstruction,
deviation and harmonics power) (see the updated Supplementary Document 3 for details).
both qualitative and quantitative methods available. A comparison of those showed that 21
harmonics effectively capture 99% of the total harmonic power (shape information). While, an
nspection with more qualitative approaches showed that the effective number providing a reliable
shape reconstruction and an acceptable deviation from the best possible fit was significantly lower
between 13 and 18 harmonics).
A more accurate analysis of the observed range showed that 15 harmonics was the minimum
number to provide a good shell shape and a reliable reconstruction of the hinge area (which is the
eature of main interest for our morphological comparisons). Therefore, 15 harmonics were selected
as an optimal compromise in order to capture a sufficiently high proportion of shape information
98%) and to provide increased robustness of statistical analysis (PCA) by significantly reducing the
number of descriptors calculated (from 84 for 21 harmonics to 60 for 15 harmonics).
We agree that for a PCA is common practice having observations about five times the number of
variables being used, but it is also true that this procedure has been shown to be more a “rule of
humb” that analysts apply with small sample size (<100 observations), so it should be used with
care (Lance & Vandenberg 2009). In fact, recent works suggest that the required sample size for
orthogonal transformations depends on the number of variables and how well they explain the
variance in the data (Bandalos & Boehm-Kaufman, 2009). Simulation studies also showed that the
quality of the results vary so much that considering the variables/observations ratio is not advisable
o decide on the required number of observations. Specifically, Preacher & MacCallum (2002) and
Mundfrom, Shaw & Ke (2005) showed robust estimations with both extremely small and big sample
sizes; however, what constitutes an adequate sample size is still somewhat complicated.
Therefore, only the first 15 harmonics were retained as an optimal compromise in order to:
<U+F0B7> capture a sufficiently high proportion of shape information (98%);
<U+F0B7> provide a good shape reconstruction and specifically a detailed hinge area, which
we found to me the morphological feature describing the most of the variability
among the analysed populations;
<U+F0B7> enhance robustness of statistical analysis (PCA) by significantly reducing the
number of descriptors calculated.
Results
Results of genetic and morphological analyses are presented completely separated, so the reader is a bit of
a loss why the two aspects were actually investigated in this study. It would be interesting, for example, to
examine the relationships between genetic and morphological distances between populations.
Response 15: We agree with this and we have therefore written new paragraphs in the results
“Relationship between genetic and morphometric variation”) and discussion sections. Specifically,
we addressed this comment constructing GLMMs (see Response 9) where morphological variation
was modelled in terms of genetic variation including population of origin as a random effect. We
believe this has improved the quality of our manuscript and we are therefore grateful for this
comment.
also do not understand the rationale in performing MANOVA on PC-axes rather than the raw values, i.e.
harmonics. Please explain.
Response 15: MANOVA is usually seen as an extension of the analysis of variance with multiple
dependant variables and it is known to share assumptions of strictly related statistical tests (LDA,
ANOVA and multiple regression) such as normality, homoscedasticity and absence of outliers
Quinn & Keough 2002; Johnson & Field 1993).
Additional assumptions of MANOVA include linearity, equality of covariance matrices and absence
of multi-collinearity (Quinn & Keough 2002; Claude 2008). Specifically, collinearity between
esponse variables is a problem in the same way as for multiple regression. The discriminant
unction coefficients will be quite sensitive to which variables are included or exclude when they are
highly correlated (Quinn & Keough 2002; Johnson & Field 1993).
Absence of multicollinearity should be checked by evaluating correlations among the dependent
variables that should all be moderately related (main requirement for MANOVA and LDA). But any
becomes a near-linear combination of the other dependent variables, and under such
circumstances, it would be statistically redundant. Therefore, not including highly correlated
variables will help to lessen the impact of collinearity and, since it reduces the dimensionality of the
data matrix, will also make MANOVA more robust to heterogeneous variance-covariance matrices
Quinn & Keough 2002; Tabachnick & Fidell 1996)
Because of these assumptions, performing MANOVA directly on the raw data would be quite
problematic, since harmonic coefficients present a high degree of collinearity, with many of the
variables having correlations even higher that .80 or .90. Their collinearity is intrinsically related to
he way coefficients are calculated from the harmonics and it can be easily observed through
nspections of pairwise correlations on the raw data. In addition, MANOVA is quite sensitive to
excessive multidimensionality (as in our case with 60 descriptors) and tends to be too generous in
significance test (Tabachnick & Fidell 1996; Johnson & Field 1993).
Performing MANOVA on the whole set of Principal Components or harmonic coefficients should be
strictly equivalent as they are as many PCs as quantitative variables. However, using the PCs as
esponse variables would have different advantages:
<U+F0B7> The same amount of shape information can be captured by a smaller number of variables
(15 PCs versus 60 raw variables);
<U+F0B7> Significant reduction of dataset multidimensionality with increased test robustness;
<U+F0B7> Multicollinearity is completely avoided by using uncorrelated (orthogonal) variables as
Principal Components.
Performing MANOVA on PC-axes rather than the raw coefficients has also been increasingly used in
morphometrics applied to biology and different field (Claude 2013; Claude 2008; Bonhomme et al.
2016; Lipo et al. 2016)
*********************************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-160548
Article Status: SUBMITTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-160548
MS Title: High throughput sequencing reveals fine-scale population structure and phenotypic plasticity in a
benthic invertebrate
MS Authors: Vendrami, David; Telesca, Luca; Weigand, Hannah; Weiss, Martina; Fawcett, Katie; Lehman,
Katrin; Clark, Melody; Leese, Florian; McMinn, Carrie; Moore, Heather; Hoffman, Joseph
Contact Author: David Vendrami
Contact Author Email: david.vendrami@student.unife.it
Contact Author Address 1: University of Bielefeld
Contact Author Address 2: Postfach 100131
Contact Author Address 3: 33501 Bielefeld
Contact Author City: Bielefeld
Contact Author State:
Contact Author Country: Germany
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code: 33615
Keywords: Pecten maximus, phenotypic plasticity, microsatellite, single nucleotide polymorphism,
morphometrics, great scallop
Abstract: Molecular ecology studies are gradually shifting from using small panels of classical genetic
markers such as microsatellites to larger panels of SNPs generated by approaches like restriction site
associated DNA sequencing (RADseq). However, very few empirical studies have compared the ability of
hese approaches to resolve population structure. This could have implications for understanding
ine-scale population differentiation. We therefore compared the ability of microsatellites and RADseq to
esolve microgeographic population structure in a commercially important benthic invertebrate by
genotyping great scallops (Pecten maximus) from nine populations around Northern Ireland at 13
microsatellites and 10,539 SNPs. The shells were then subjected to morphometric and colour analysis to
compare patterns of phenotypic and genetic variation. We found that RADseq was superior at detecting
ine-scale genetic differences, yielding higher Fst values and support for two distinct genetic clusters
whereas only one cluster could be detected in a Bayesian analysis of the microsatellite dataset. We also
ound appreciable phenotypic variation in size-independent shell shape and colouration, including among
ocalities that did not differ significantly at either marker. Our study demonstrates empirically how RADseq
can provide deeper insights into fine-scale population structure and provides arguably the strongest
evidence from a study of this kind for phenotypic plasticity in a natural mollusc population.
EndDryadContent
Coates, B. S., Sumerford, D. V., Miller, N. J., Kim, K. S., Sappington, T. W., Siegfried, B. D., & Lewis, L. C.
2009). Comparative performance of single nucleotide polymorphism and microsatellite markers for
population genetic analysis. Journal of Heredity, 100(5), 556-564.
Meirmans, P. G., & Hedrick, P. W. (2011). Assessing population structure: FST and related
measures. Molecular ecology resources, 11(1), 5-18.
Evanno, G., Regnaut, S., & Goudet, J. (2005). Detecting the number of clusters of individuals using the
software STRUCTURE: a simulation study.Molecular ecology, 14(8), 2611-2620.
Bandalos, D. L., and M. R. Boehm-Kaufman (2009) Four Common Misconceptions in Exploratory Factor
Analysis. In Statistical and Methodological Myths and Urban Legends, edited by C. E. Lance and R. J.
Vandenberg, 61–87. New York: Routledge.
Bonhomme, V. et al. (2016) The first shoots of a modern morphometrics approach to the origins of
agriculture. Web Ecol. 16, 1–2.
Bonhomme, V., Picq, S., Gaucherel, C. & Claude, J. (2014) Momocs : Outline Analysis Using R. J. Stat.
Softw. 56, 1–24.
Claude, J. (2008) Morphometrics with R. Springer.
Claude, M. Log-shape ratios, Procrustes superimposition, elliptic Fourier analysis: Three worked examples
n R. Hystrix 24, 94–102 (2013).
Giardina, C. R. & Kuhl, F. P. (1977) Accuracy of curve approximation by harmonically related vectors with
elliptical loci. Comput. Graph. Image Process. 6, 277–285.
Johnson, C.R. & Field, C.A. (1993) Using fixed-effects model multivariate analysis of variance in marine
biology and ecology. Oceanography and Marine Biology Annual Review 31: 177–221.
Kenchington, E. L. & Full, W. E. (1994) Fourier Analysis of Sea Scallop ( Placopecten magellanicus ) Shells
in Determining Population Structure. Can. J. Fish. Aquat. Sci. 51, 348–356.
Kuhl, F. P. & Giardina, C. R. (1982) Elliptic Fourier features of a closed contour. Comput. Graph. Image
Process. 18, 236–258.
Lance C.E. & R. J. Vandenberg (2009) Statistical and Methodological Myths and Urban Legends. New
York: Routledge.
Lipo, C. P. et al. (2016) Weapons of war? Rapa Nui mata’a morphometric analyses. Antiquity 90, 172–187.
Mundfrom, D.J., Shaw, D.G., & Ke, T.L. (2005) Minimum sample size recommendations for conducting
actor analyses. International Journal of Testing, 5 (2), 159-168.
Preacher, K.J., & MacCallum, R.C. (2002) Exploratory factor analysis in behavior genetics research: Factor
ecovery with small sample sizes. Behavior Genetics, 32 (2), 153-161.
Quinn G.P & Keough M.J. (2002) Experimental Design and Data Analysis for Biologists, 1st edition.
Cambridge University Press.
Tabachnick, B. & Fidell, L. (1996) Using Multivariate Statistics, 3rd edition. Harper & Row, New York.
Society Open
