A biomimetic semisynthesis enables structural elucidation
of selaginellin U: a tautomeric cyclic alkynylphenol from
Selaginella tamariscina
Qin-Feng Zhu, Ying Bao, Zhi-Jun Zhang, Jia Su, Li-Dong Shao and Qin-Shi Zhao
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170352.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170352
Review timeline
Original submission: 13 April 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 14 June 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 20 June 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170352.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors successfully isolated and identified two new lactone-containing selaginellins 1 and 2,
together with eleven known compounds from S.tamariscina. Among of them,
Selaginellin U (2), with a rare unsaturated d-lactone ring fused with ring A
represents a new structure type of Selaginellins.They also firstly carried
out biomimetic semisynthesis of compound 4, which will be of use to the other chemists. The
data, reference and others are acceptable. Recommend for publication.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Maliha Uroos)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This manuscript reports an interesting study for the isolation and structural elucidation of two
novel selaginellins T and U (1 and 2) from Selaginella tamariscina along with the biomimetic
semisynthesis for the structural validation of selaginellin U. The results in the manuscript are
presented in a convincing manner and the characterisation data reported is of high quality. I
recommend this manuscript for publication with some minor comments.
1. Please ensure that your manuscript is checked by a native English speaker for language clarity
and grammar.
2. In the experimental section 2.3 (Extraction and isolation, page 5, line 11), you have mentioned
that fraction III-C was further fractionated to give two sub-fractions (III-Ca to III-Cc), so actually
these are three sub-fractions instead of two, unless its a typographical error. Please clarify as no
further details regarding fraction III-Cc were provided.
3. According to this study compound 2 exists in tautomeric form, if compound 1 may tautomerise
in the same manner then it would result in opening of the lactone, have you recorded any such
observations?
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170352)
09-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Zhao:
Title: A Biomimetic Semisynthesis Enables Structural Elucidation of Selaginellin U: A Tautomeric
Cyclic Alkynylphenol from Selaginella tamariscina
Manuscript ID: RSOS-170352
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 18-Jun-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
4
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Dr Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society of Chemistry
Email: chemistryopenscience@rsc.org
On behalf of the Subject Editor Dr Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor John Moses.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
5
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors successfully isolated and identified two new lactone-containing selaginellins 1 and 2,
together with eleven known compounds from S.tamariscina. Among of them,
Selaginellin U (2), with a rare unsaturated d-lactone ring fused with ring A
represents a new structure type of Selaginellins.They also firstly carried
out biomimetic semisynthesis of compound 4, which will be of use to the other chemists. The
data, reference and others are acceptable. Recommend for publication.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This manuscript reports an interesting study for the isolation and structural elucidation of two
novel selaginellins T and U (1 and 2) from Selaginella tamariscina along with the biomimetic
semisynthesis for the structural validation of selaginellin U. The results in the manuscript are
presented in a convincing manner and the characterisation data reported is of high quality. I
recommend this manuscript for publication with some minor comments.
1. Please ensure that your manuscript is checked by a native English speaker for language clarity
and grammar.
2. In the experimental section 2.3 (Extraction and isolation, page 5, line 11), you have mentioned
that fraction III-C was further fractionated to give two sub-fractions (III-Ca to III-Cc), so actually
these are three sub-fractions instead of two, unless its a typographical error. Please clarify as no
further details regarding fraction III-Cc were provided.
3. According to this study compound 2 exists in tautomeric form, if compound 1 may tautomerise
in the same manner then it would result in opening of the lactone, have you recorded any such
observations?
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170352)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170352.R1)
20-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Zhao:
Title: A Biomimetic Semisynthesis Enables Structural Elucidation of Selaginellin U: A Tautomeric
Cyclic Alkynylphenol from Selaginella tamariscina
Manuscript ID: RSOS-170352.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
6
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
On behalf of the Subject Editor Dr Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor John Moses.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
*********
Appendix A
Dear editor and reviewers:
Thank you for reviewing our manuscript entitled “A Biomimetic
Semisynthesis Enables Structural Elucidation of Selaginellin U: A Tautomeric Cyclic
Alkynylphenol from Selaginella tamariscina” (Manuscript ID: RSOS-170352). The
comments are all valuable and very helpful for revising and improving our paper, as
well as the important guiding significance to our researches. We have studied
comments carefully and have made correction which we hope meet with approval.
Revised portions are marked in yellow manuscript-R1 and electronic
supplementary material-R1.
Responds to the reviewer’s comments:
Reviewer #1:
The authors successfully isolated and identified two new lactone-containing
selaginellins 1 and 2, together with eleven known compounds from S.tamariscina.
Among of them,Selaginellin U (2), with a rare unsaturated d-lactone ring fused with
ring A represents a new structure type of Selaginellins.They also firstly carried out
biomimetic semisynthesis of compound 4, which will be of use to the other
chemists.The data, reference and others are acceptable. Recommend for publication.
Response: Thank you very much for the careful review and helpful suggestion.
Reviewer#2:
This manuscript reports an interesting study for the isolation and structural elucidation
of two novel selaginellins T and U (1 and 2) from Selaginella tamariscina along with
the biomimetic semisynthesis for the structural validation of selaginellin U. The
results in the manuscript are presented in a convincing manner and the
characterisation data reported is of high quality. I recommend this manuscript for
publication with some minor comments.
Response: Thank you very much for careful review and the helpful advice. The
changes were marked in yellow color which you can find in manuscript-R1 and
electronic supplementary material-R1.
1. Please ensure that your manuscript is checked by a native English speaker for
language clarity and grammar.
Response: Thank you very much for careful review and the helpful advice. The
revised manuscript has been checked and improved by a native speaker of Kunming
Institute of Botany (KIB). All the revisions were marked in yellow color that you will
find in manuscript-R1.
2. In the experimental section 2.3 (Extraction and isolation, page 5, line 11), you have
mentioned that fraction III-C was further fractionated to give two sub-fractions
(III-Ca to III-Cc), so actually these are three sub-fractions instead of two, unless its a
typographical error. Please clarify as no further details regarding fraction III-Cc were
provided.
Response: Thank you very much for the careful review and helpful suggestion. We
are very sorry for our negligence of typography, these are only two sub-fractions
(III-Ca to III-Cb). According to your comments, we have revised such errors
throughout the manuscript. All the changes were marked in yellow color which you
can find in manuscript-R1.
3. According to this study compound 2 exists in tautomeric form, if compound 1 may
tautomerise in the same manner then it would result in opening of the lactone, have
you recorded any such observations?
Response: Thank you very much for the helpful suggestion. Actually, no observation
of the lactone opening of compound 1 was detected during the experiment.
Other changes:
1. The sections of “ethics statement and acknowledgement” were added to the
manuscript-R1 marked in yellow color.
Society Open
