Model-based risk assessment and public health analysis to
prevent Lyme disease
Nasser Sharareh, Nasim S. Sabounchi, Amanda Roome, Rita Spathis and Ralph M.
Garruto
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170841.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170841
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 July 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 15 September 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 12 October 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170841.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Please see the attached PDF. (Appendix A)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Review of: “Model-Based Risk Assessment and Public Health Analysis to
Prevent Lyme Disease”
Nasser et al. present a risk assessment model for Lyme disease using data from Binghamton
University campus. The field portion of the study seemed to generated potentially useful data but
the model was not described in enough detail for me to evaluate its utility or the validity of
results. I provided comments below to help elicit which information I would need to properly
assess this work.
Introduction
The authors explain motivation for the SD approach but do not really provide information about
how the approach builds on previous work. I was left wondering exactly what type of modeling
was employed, how it was novel compared with other approaches, and which methodological
gaps were being addressed. The authors touched on some of this from a conceptual standpoint
but not methodologically. Even by the end of the paper, I really had no idea what type of
equations were used in the model.
Pg 5, lines 43,44: “A few studies have applied SD for LD modeling.” References?
Methodology and Model Development
Pg 7, lines 3-9: “We use this conceptual diagram [Figure 1] to develop a simulation model to
analyze quantitatively the significant factors that drive the high number of LD cases.”. This
sentence confused me because Figure 1 seems to have many more details than the data and
concept described in the model structure. Are all the features in Figure 1 modeled explicitly?
Also, I found Figure 1 far too overwhelming to capture any main messages. I would suggest
3
simplifying it to just the main features that are discussed in results and potentially save this more
detailed version for the SI.
Causal Loop Diagram
“The arrows in Figure 1 illustrate causalities among variables that can have a positive or negative
sign; positive means that changes in one variable lead to the changes in another variable in the
same direction,…”. How was this determined? Completely a mystery to me…
Field Data
What were the time frames (months) that mice and ticks were collected? How many were
collected? How many of each were tested for Bb? Was each sample tested individually or were
samples pooled in some way? What were the sample sizes for behavioral risk? How many unique
individuals versus resampled individuals? Resampled individuals would decrease the sample
size and should be treated differently from a statistical standpoint.
Building the Simulation Model
What are the equations underlying the different modules? How are the modules connected (in
terms of equations) – Figure 2 only presents a broad overview? I have idea what type of model is
being used for prediction – not even if it’s stochastic or deterministic.
Pg 12, lines 39-42: “The simulation results of this module are compared with the tick density and
density of infected ticks for 2013 and 2014.”. What statistical approach was used for comparison?
Pg 14, line 13: What is the fraction used to decrease risk seasonally? How was it determined?
Pg 14, Awareness section. Which data were used to inform this and how? Unclear. Which
parameters describe this module. Again, a full set of equations would help.
Results
Pg, 15, line 48: How was this calibration done?
Pg, 16, lines 3-16: It seems like this estimation procedure is fairly rough. Was sensitivity analysis
done using a range of values that match the range of uncertainty in underreporting rates?
Pg, 16: Is Table 2 a complete list of parameters used in the model? How did you decide which
ones to fix and which ones to estimate?
Table 2 – What was the justification for the “We used” values. Many of these are outside the
ranges reported in literature so it’s unclear why they were chosen. Similarly, some of the
calibrated values are outside the estimation interval, why? It seems these points should be
discussed. If the model is using unrealistic fixed values than predictions are likely biased, no?
Pg 17-18: Much of this is Discussion rather than results. For results I would stick with just
describing what the figures and stats report.
Pg 17: Increasing situational awareness is one of the main interventions the authors are interested
in but I have no idea how it was modeled! How do people move from being aware to
situationally aware? How do new people get factored in? Can people lose situational awareness?
I still don’t understand which data informed this part of the module, and thus I couldn’t really
evaluate whether the conclusion that awareness was more important relative to other
interventions (e.g. mouse removal or clothing risk) was well supported.
Discussion and Conclusion
Pg 21: I think the assertion that this could be used as a tool by public health departments is a
stretch. There was no description of the mechanics of model and how to use it. What would a
4
user-friendly interface look like for a model like this? How much expert knowledge would be
needed to uses it and interpret the output? Is it computationally efficient? Does it rely on data
that are readily collected by public health departments – I think not.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170841)
25-Aug-2017
Dear Mr Sharareh,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Model-Based Risk Assessment and Public Health Analysis
to Prevent Lyme Disease") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to
revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be
found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 17-Sep-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
5
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170841
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Please see the attached PDF.
6
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
Review of: “Model-Based Risk Assessment and Public Health Analysis to
Prevent Lyme Disease”
Nasser et al. present a risk assessment model for Lyme disease using data from Binghamton
University campus. The field portion of the study seemed to generated potentially useful data but
the model was not described in enough detail for me to evaluate its utility or the validity of
results. I provided comments below to help elicit which information I would need to properly
assess this work.
Introduction
The authors explain motivation for the SD approach but do not really provide information about
how the approach builds on previous work. I was left wondering exactly what type of modeling
was employed, how it was novel compared with other approaches, and which methodological
gaps were being addressed. The authors touched on some of this from a conceptual standpoint
but not methodologically. Even by the end of the paper, I really had no idea what type of
equations were used in the model.
Pg 5, lines 43,44: “A few studies have applied SD for LD modeling.” References?
Methodology and Model Development
Pg 7, lines 3-9: “We use this conceptual diagram [Figure 1] to develop a simulation model to
analyze quantitatively the significant factors that drive the high number of LD cases.”. This
sentence confused me because Figure 1 seems to have many more details than the data and
concept described in the model structure. Are all the features in Figure 1 modeled explicitly?
Also, I found Figure 1 far too overwhelming to capture any main messages. I would suggest
simplifying it to just the main features that are discussed in results and potentially save this more
detailed version for the SI.
Causal Loop Diagram
“The arrows in Figure 1 illustrate causalities among variables that can have a positive or negative
sign; positive means that changes in one variable lead to the changes in another variable in the
same direction,…”. How was this determined? Completely a mystery to me…
Field Data
What were the time frames (months) that mice and ticks were collected? How many were
collected? How many of each were tested for Bb? Was each sample tested individually or were
samples pooled in some way? What were the sample sizes for behavioral risk? How many unique
individuals versus resampled individuals? Resampled individuals would decrease the sample
size and should be treated differently from a statistical standpoint.
Building the Simulation Model
What are the equations underlying the different modules? How are the modules connected (in
terms of equations) – Figure 2 only presents a broad overview? I have idea what type of model is
being used for prediction – not even if it’s stochastic or deterministic.
Pg 12, lines 39-42: “The simulation results of this module are compared with the tick density and
density of infected ticks for 2013 and 2014.”. What statistical approach was used for comparison?
Pg 14, line 13: What is the fraction used to decrease risk seasonally? How was it determined?
Pg 14, Awareness section. Which data were used to inform this and how? Unclear. Which
parameters describe this module. Again, a full set of equations would help.
Results
Pg, 15, line 48: How was this calibration done?
7
Pg, 16, lines 3-16: It seems like this estimation procedure is fairly rough. Was sensitivity analysis
done using a range of values that match the range of uncertainty in underreporting rates?
Pg, 16: Is Table 2 a complete list of parameters used in the model? How did you decide which
ones to fix and which ones to estimate?
Table 2 – What was the justification for the “We used” values. Many of these are outside the
ranges reported in literature so it’s unclear why they were chosen. Similarly, some of the
calibrated values are outside the estimation interval, why? It seems these points should be
discussed. If the model is using unrealistic fixed values than predictions are likely biased, no?
Pg 17-18: Much of this is Discussion rather than results. For results I would stick with just
describing what the figures and stats report.
Pg 17: Increasing situational awareness is one of the main interventions the authors are interested
in but I have no idea how it was modeled! How do people move from being aware to
situationally aware? How do new people get factored in? Can people lose situational awareness?
I still don’t understand which data informed this part of the module, and thus I couldn’t really
evaluate whether the conclusion that awareness was more important relative to other
interventions (e.g. mouse removal or clothing risk) was well supported.
Discussion and Conclusion
Pg 21: I think the assertion that this could be used as a tool by public health departments is a
stretch. There was no description of the mechanics of model and how to use it. What would a
user-friendly interface look like for a model like this? How much expert knowledge would be
needed to uses it and interpret the output? Is it computationally efficient? Does it rely on data
that are readily collected by public health departments – I think not.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170841)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170841.R1)
12-Oct-2017
Dear Mr Sharareh,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Model-Based Risk Assessment and
Public Health Analysis to Prevent Lyme Disease" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
8
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
pendix A
nk you for the opportunity to review this manuscript. The authors have done a nice job in
iewing the literature, framing the problem, and conducting a simulation analysis to compare
eral interventions to reduce the number of LD cases per year—an important problem to
dy. However, I believe the manuscript needs some further clarification before being fully
epted for publication. I have provided some suggestions and questions below. I hope they
help the authors improve the article.
contribution of the article is to provide a more comprehensive perspective than previous
deling studies. However, the causal loop diagram has become too big and hard to follow. I
difficulty tracing the loops, especially that the CLD had many feedback loops, but only some
hem are identified and discussed. I don’t think that the current presentation would be
pful to those who are new to this simulation method. My suggestion—which is simple to
orporate—is to break the large CLD down into several figures, start with the first feedback
p explained in the article, and then add new figures, present other feedback loops as they
explained throughout the text.
preciate that the authors provided the big causal loop and clearly specified what parts of
model is used in the quantitative simulation model. This attentive transparency is very
pful—modeling studies often ignore the full set of qualitative mechanisms they initially
ntified as they could not transform them all to a quantitative configuration. However, it is
not quite clear why/how the authors selected some of the loops for the development of
quantitative model. I understand that not all those qualitative mechanisms can be easily
nslated into a quantitative form or there is no clear data to support them. But the authors
d to explain how they selected some of the loops. Also, the figure may need to be checked. I
‘Number of people in an area’ is connected (in bold) to ‘Human activity’, but the connection
Human activity’ to the rest of the model is not bolded. Perhaps there was a mistake in
wing the diagram, or the given information was not clearly stated that I didn’t understand it.
ile the way the authors present the CLD and its transformation into a simulation model—as
ussed above—helps increase the transparency in the study, I think the authors need to
sider the replicability of their work as well. This can be simply taken care of by providing the
ntitative simulation model and its equations. A supplementary document providing the
ails of the model would be the first/best choice; but if not possible, at least share the
ulation file including the details of the model. I was wondering how some of the
chanisms are formulated, and I believe other modelers would be curious about that as well. I
uld note that I do see that the authors care about this as they discuss at the end of the
cle about the availability of the model to the public. Providing the details of the model along
h the article would satisfy this concern. Lastly, while not required for this publication, I
mire the intention of the authors and strongly recommend them to provide the model in a
r-friendly interface on the web too.
parametrization of the model, as reported in Table 2 needs to be clarified. It is currently
lear why some of the parameter values used in the model are outside the ranges reported
the prior research, e.g., ‘Average time takes until Nymph molt into adult’ is used as 150 days
le its value is reported in the literature to be in the range 90-120 days. Also, it seems that
average of the range is used for some of the variables, e.g., ‘Hatch rate’, but the ‘Number of
s per each adult female’ is used as 500 while the literature suggests 300 to 3000. The way
values are selected from the ranges reported in the literature should be clarified.
the estimation of model parameters, it is not clear why some of the estimated (calibrated)
ues fall outside their respective estimation intervals. For instance, ‘desired awareness’ is
nd to be 30%, while its interval is 60%-90%. Is this interval the optimization bound for the
iable? If so, why the estimate is out of the range? If not, then what does the range present?
reover, how the intervals are selected? For some of the parameters, a reference is given but
some others, there is no information. Please make sure the details are clearly presented.
me other points:
assumed that a mouse won't move to other walkways. I wonder how significantly this
umption can change the findings as the assumption seems to be often violated, right? Was
re any sensitivity test behind this assumption?
me of the discussions in the last section of the article are not driven directly by the
ulation analysis, or it is not shown how they are. Where is that simulation result backing up
discussion about man-made walkway in the conclusion on page 20, second paragraph? How
he suggestion about deer driven from the model?
ase elaborate briefly how the four intervention scenarios for reducing the number of LD
es are identified. Are these common interventions? Why 6- and 12-month periods are used?
2 needs clarification and improvement. Here I discuss a few points:
- The inclusion of Fig 2 increases the understandability of Fig 1. However, I wasn’t sure
how to connect the two figures. Some discussions of Fig 2 refers back to Fig 1, but not
all parts are fully discussed. Please improve this and help the readers on how to
check/connect the figures.
- When I read the discussions of Tick Module, I was expecting to see a loop in its
respective module in Fig 2 too, but there is no loop or cycle. Should there be a close
loop there? If not, please clarify it for the readers.
- As discussed in the article, the increase of peoples' awareness would result in a
decrease of getting infected, however, in the ‘Awareness and SA model’ the green
people who are supposedly more aware than the others are shown as red in the ‘LD
Transmission Module’, supposedly meaning that they are infected. This is minor and can
be simply fixed to remove any confusion.
- A simple tweak in the choice of the icon used in the ‘Human Behavioral and
Environmental Risk Module’ helps the readers get the point by looking at the figure. The
discussion talks about organic vs non-organic walkways… so why not choose another
icon, e.g., a walkway-like icon rather than a building icon?
or points:
ould be helpful to mention the policies tested in the abstract, especially to those who will
ude your study in a review study in the future.
me disease’ should be added in the keywords.
text can benefit from a proofreading. There were some grammar inconsistencies
oughout the text.
ce again, I hope that these comments help the authors improve their work. I should note
t my comments are mostly about the method. I’m not commenting on the discussions on
disease as it’s outside of my area of work and I leave that to other reviewers and the editor.
Appendix B
Responses to Reviewers
First of all, we would like to thank the editor and anonymous reviewers for their
useful comments and constructive critique. We appreciate the opportunity to address the
comments by submitting a revision. We have considered all comments precisely, and we
believe the revisions address these comments and have greatly improved the paper. In
this revision report, we have addressed each reviewer’s concerns by explaining in detail
the responses (In italic) to their questions/concerns (In Bold) – if reviewer 2 had the same
concern as reviewer 1, then his/her answer would be referred to the corresponding section
in the reviewer 1 answers.
Reviewer 1
Causal Loop Diagram
1- The causal loop diagram has become too big and hard to follow. I had
difficulty tracing the loops, especially that the CLD had many feedback loops, but
only some of them are identified and discussed. My suggestion—which is simple to
incorporate—is to break the large CLD down into several figures, start with the
first feedback loop explained in the article, and then add new figures, present other
feedback loops as they are explained throughout the text.
2- It is also not quite clear why/how the authors selected some of the loops for
the development of the quantitative model. I understand that not all those
qualitative mechanisms can be easily translated into a quantitative form or there is
no clear data to support them. But the authors need to explain how they selected
some of the loops.
3- Also, the figure may need to be checked. I see ‘Number of people in an
area’ is connected (in bold) to ‘Human activity’, but the connection of ‘Human
activity’ to the rest of the model is not bolded. Perhaps there was a mistake in
1
drawing the diagram, or the given information was not clearly stated that I didn’t
understand it.
Response:
1- We appreciate the fact that the reviewers have raised the issue with the causal loop
diagram. Our first thought was to split the diagram in Figure1 into a few more diagrams
to explain each feedback loop separately and increase the understandability of the
system. However, since system dynamics modeling takes a holistic approach and
illustrates the big-picture with various interrelationships, hence we think that if we break
down the big causal loop diagram into small figures we will not convey the message
appropriately for the readers. In order to make it easier for the readers to follow the
loops and understand the diagram and also the relation between Figure 1 and Figure 2,
we created Table 1 that lists all feedback loops, accompanied with their components and
the direction of links and we also added the name of the feedback loops in Figure 2.
2- We thank the reviewer for raising this point. It is true that we had to define a scope for
the model mainly by considering the available data and the information. For example, we
didn’t consider some factors such as awareness of policy makers, or temperature,
because validating these concepts are very challenging and need further data to validate
these variables in the simulation model. We added these explanations in the second
paragraph of the “Causal Loop Diagram” section (Page 7).
3- the reviewer is right and this was a mistake. We corrected the diagram and bolded the
other two arrows going from “Human Activity” to “Foot Traffic” and then to “Humans
in Contact with Ticks”.
Replicability of Work
I think the authors need to consider the replicability of their work as well.
This can be simply taken care of by providing the quantitative simulation model and
its equations. A supplementary document providing the details of the model would
be the first/best choice; but if not possible, at least share the simulation file including
the details of the model. I was wondering how some of the mechanisms are
formulated, and I believe other modelers would be curious about that as well. I
should note that I do see that the authors care about this as they discuss at the end
2
of the article about the availability of the model to the public. Providing the details
of the model along with the article would satisfy this concern.
Response:
In order to give more details on how this model was developed, we provided complete
equations and formulas of the model in the supplementary materials document. The
parameter values are also provided in Table 3 with their confidence intervals.
Table 2 (new Table 3)
1- The parametrization of the model, as reported in Table 2 needs to be
clarified. It is currently unclear why some of the parameter values used in the model
are outside the ranges reported by the prior research, e.g., ‘Average time takes until
Nymph molt into adult’ is used as 150 days while its value is reported in the
literature to be in the range 90-120 days. Also, it seems that the average of the range
is used for some of the variables, e.g., ‘Hatch rate’, but the ‘Number of eggs per
each adult female’ is used as 500 while the literature suggests 300 to 3000. The way
the values are selected from the ranges reported in the literature should be clarified.
2- On the estimation of model parameters, it is not clear why some of the
estimated (calibrated) values fall outside their respective estimation intervals. For
instance, ‘desired awareness’ is found to be 30%, while its interval is 60%-90%. Is
this interval the optimization bound for the variable? If so, why the estimate is out
of the range? If not, then what does the range present? Moreover, how the intervals
are selected? For some of the parameters, a reference is given but for some others,
there is no information. Please make sure the details are clearly presented.
Response:
1- Although we used literature to define some intervals, since most of the values reported
in the literature were only estimations, we decided to choose the values that make more
sense based on our intuition and knowledge. Therefore, we tried to define the average
time of tick life stages in a way that represents a 2-year tick life cycle. In Table3 (old
Table2), we labeled these variables by *.
3
Regarding the “Hatch Rate”, we had put this variable in the upper part of the Table3 by
mistake, therefore, we moved “Hatch Rate” in the lower part of the table which indicates
that we are calibrating this variable, however each walkway has its own value.
2- We thank reviewer for bringing this to our attention. There were some mistakes in
reporting the results. “Desired Awareness” is being calibrated between 30% and 50%,
and final calibrated value is set to 30%. Also, “Average time to become Aware” is being
calibrated between 300 days to 1500 days, and 300 days is the final calibrated value. We
could choose a lower value for the lower bounds, however, we thought that values less
than 30% and 300 days don’t make sense and in the real world this is not likely
happening.
For the second part of the table, we also tried to find some intervals for parameters in the
literature and that is why we have reported some references in this section, however, we
couldn’t find intervals for every one of them and we just determined the intervals based
on our knowledge about the tick life cycle, Lyme disease (LD) transmission, and our
educated guess.
We added some explanations for more clarity in the “Calibration” section, third
paragraph (Page 18).
Figure 2
1- The inclusion of Fig 2 increases the understandability of Fig 1. However, I
wasn’t sure how to connect the two figures. Some discussions of Fig 2 refer back to
Fig 1, but not all parts are fully discussed. Please improve this and help the readers
on how to check/connect the figures.
2- When I read the discussions of Tick Module, I was expecting to see a loop
in its respective module in Fig 2 too, but there is no loop or cycle. Should there be a
close loop there? If not, please clarify it for the readers.
Response:
We thank the reviewer for this input and modified the structure of these two figures to
make it easier to connect them. For this purpose, we have added the name of the feedback
loops that are shown in Figure 1 to the corresponding module heading in Figure 2.
4
The main purpose of Figure 2 is to visualize the simulation model in a simple diagram
and allow the reader to have a better understanding of the subsystems presented in Fig 1.
We did not draw the feedback loops and their links within Figure 2 to avoid making it
complicated and defeat its purpose. However, we added the loop that the reviewer
mentioned in point 2 above.
Other Points
1- It is assumed that a mouse won't move to other walkways. I wonder how
significantly this assumption can change the findings as the assumption seems to be
often violated, right? Was there any sensitivity test behind this assumption?
2- Some of the discussions in the last section of the article are not driven
directly by the simulation analysis, or it is not shown how they are. Where is that
simulation result backing up the discussion about man-made walkway in the
conclusion on page 20, second paragraph? How is the suggestion about deer driven
from the model?
3- Please elaborate briefly how the four intervention scenarios for reducing
the number of LD cases are identified. Are these common interventions? Why 6-
and 12-month periods are used?
4- As discussed in the article, the increase of peoples' awareness would result
in a decrease of getting infected, however, in the ‘Awareness and SA model’ the
green people who are supposedly more aware than the others are shown as red in
the ‘LD Transmission Module’, supposedly meaning that they are infected. This is
minor and can be simply fixed to remove any confusion.
5- A simple tweak in the choice of the icon used in the ‘Human Behavioral
and Environmental Risk Module’ helps the readers get the point by looking at the
figure. The discussion talks about organic vs non-organic walkways… so why not
choose another icon, e.g., a walkway-like icon rather than a building icon?
Response:
1- Since the home range of mice is about 7 meters (Reference 48 in our manuscript), and
the walkways are located farther than 7 miles from each other, we think that this
assumption is acceptable and it would just be violated in exceptional cases.
5
2- Our simulation results show that 55 LD cases among all 203 cases happened in
manmade walkways. We added this result to support our claim about the risk of exposure
to ticks in manmade walkways in the “Discussion and Conclusion” section, fifth
paragraph (Page 22).
Regarding the conclusion on deer, we haven’t considered them in our simulation model,
but based on our observations and literature, they are a very good breeding site for ticks
and they will move ticks around. Because of their large home range, controlling them
would decrease the human exposure to ticks. However, we deleted this sentence since it’s
not reflecting our results.
3- These are just common interventions, and the time periods for interventions 1 and 4
were chosen to reflect the importance of time before a situation involving an infectious
disease gets worse. Therefore, if we spend more time on increasing the awareness and
situational awareness to achieve a reasonable level of them, the likelihood of getting
higher number of LD cases will increase. However, if we increase our efforts to achieve
the same level of awareness in shorter time, we would get less number of LD cases.
4- Although the higher number of people who are aware about LD leads to lower human
risk which will decrease the LD transmission (If you look at the causal loop diagram, you
will see the same causal connection) but as discussed in the “Discussion and
Conclusion” section, paragraph 2-4, we mentioned that some people were aware but they
were still bitten by ticks. This is the reason why we purposely show that some aware
individuals also become infected (shown in red) in the “LD Transmission Module”.
5- The reviewer is completely right, and we changed the icons. Thank you for mentioning
this.
Minor Points
It would be helpful to mention the policies tested in the abstract, especially to
those who will include your study in a review study in the future. ‘Lyme disease’
should be added in the keywords. The text can benefit from a proofreading. There
were some grammar inconsistencies throughout the text.
6
Response:
We thank the reviewer for the many helpful comments. We responded to all the
reviewer’s concerns and added Lyme Disease as a keyword and the interventions to our
abstract. We also re-proofread the manuscript a final time to correct any grammar
inconsistencies we found.
Reviewer 2
Introduction
1- The authors explain motivation for the SD approach but do not really
provide information about how the approach builds on previous work. I was left
wondering exactly what type of modeling was employed, how it was novel compared
with other approaches, and which methodological gaps were being addressed. The
authors touched on some of this from a conceptual standpoint but not
methodologically. Even by the end of the paper, I really had no idea what type of
equations were used in the model.
2- Pg 5, lines 43,44: “A few studies have applied SD for LD modeling.”
References?
Response:
1- We appreciate the fact that the reviewer has raised some concerns with the
methodological aspect of this paper. In order to clarify how our methodology addresses
the current gaps in modeling for LD, we further added to the introduction section and
clarified our contributions on page 6. Also in order to give more details on how the
simulation model was developed, we provided a supplementary materials document that
includes complete equations and formulas of the model. The parameter values are also
provided in Table 3 with their confidence intervals.
2- We inserted two citations at the end of this sentence (Page 5 last paragraph). This
paragraph was expanded to describe details about the scope and results of these two
papers.
7
Methodology and Model Development
Pg 7, lines 3-9: “We use this conceptual diagram [Figure 1] to develop a
simulation model to analyze quantitatively the significant factors that drive the high
number of LD cases.”. This sentence confused me because Figure 1 seems to have
many more details than the data and concept described in the model structure. Are
all the features in Figure 1 modeled explicitly? Also, I found Figure 1 far too
overwhelming to capture any main messages. I would suggest simplifying it to just
the main features that are discussed in results and potentially save this more
detailed version for the SI.
Response:
We thank the reviewer for the input. We modified the sentence on page 7 and explained
that we use the conceptual diagram in Figure 1 to develop our dynamics hypothesis of
the significant factors that drive the high number of LD cases. Later, considering the
feasibility and availability of data to validate the structure, we narrow the scope of our
model and simulate segments of the qualitative model that are bolded in Figure 1 for
quantitative analysis of the risk factors for LD.
Also, in order to make it easier for the readers to understand the diagram in Figure 1 and
follow the loops, we simplified Figure 1 and removed some unnecessary details and also
created Table 1 that lists all feedback loops, accompanied with their components and the
direction of links and we also added the name of the feedback loops in Figure 2.
Causal Loop Diagram
“The arrows in Figure 1 illustrate causalities among variables that can have
a positive or negative sign; positive means that changes in one variable lead to the
changes in another variable in the same direction…”. How was this determined?
Completely a mystery to me…
Response:
The causal loop diagram consists of causal links that form the feedback loops. The
purpose of this diagram is to frame our hypothesis that explains the dynamic trend of
increasing LD cases as presented in Figure 3. Hence, the causal links are not verified
until we simulate the model and further analyze the validity of this diagram. We draw the
8
causal links by reviewing the literature and talking to experts in the field. We have added
these explanations in the “Causal Loop diagram” section, first paragraph (Page 7).
Field Data
1- What were the time frames (months) that mice and ticks were collected?
2- How many were collected? How many of each were tested for Bb?
3- Was each sample tested individually or were samples pooled in some
way?
4- What were the sample sizes for behavioral risk?
5- How many unique individuals versus resampled individuals? Resampled
individuals would decrease the sample size and should be treated
differently from a statistical standpoint.
Response:
1- Rodents were gathered from September to November 2014. Ticks were gathered from
April 2013 through November 2014 (excluding winter time).
2- 112 mice were collected and 42 were tested for Bb. 1254 ticks were collected and all
of them were tested for Bb.
3- Every sample was individually tested
4- 11,419 events observed and among them, 9354 events were risky.
5- There is no way for us to determine the difference between unique and resampled
individuals, that's why we refer to them as risk events rather than individuals. The sample
size is very large, so it is possible the same person may have passed by more than once,
but there is no way of knowing how many repeats there may be in an 11-hour day. We
think it will have a negligible effect on the overall results because of the very large
sample size, and each time that a person passes by, clearly represents a risk event.
However, we have considered an average time that a person passes the walkway in our
model. This variable (Average time a person passes a walkway) is brought in the lower
part of Table3.
These explanations have been added in the “Filed Methods” section.
9
Building the Simulation Model
1- What are the equations underlying the different modules? How are the
modules connected (in terms of equations) – Figure 2 only presents a broad
overview? I have idea what type of model is being used for prediction – not even if
it’s stochastic or deterministic.
2- Pg 12, lines 39-42: “The simulation results of this module are compared
with the tick density and density of infected ticks for 2013 and 2014.”. What
statistical approach was used for comparison?
3- Pg 14, line 13: What is the fraction used to decrease risk seasonally? How
was it determined?
4- Pg 14, Awareness section. Which data were used to inform this and how?
Unclear. Which parameters describe this module. Again, a full set of equations
would help.
Response:
1- We appreciate the reviewer’s concern regarding formulation for the model. System
dynamics modeling is a deterministic approach. In order to simulate the model, we use
differential equations to develop the formulas and convert the conceptual model in
Figure 1 to an analytical model in Figure 2. Using the simulation model we can
investigate what-if strategies by running different simulation scenarios. Also, our policy
analysis section allows us to implement sensitivity analysis and we have shown this in the
results section.
2- In order to give more details on how the simulation model was developed, we provided
a supplementary materials document that includes complete equations and formulas of
the model. The parameter values are also provided in Table 3.
3- We appreciate the reviewer for the comment. We added the following sentence for
further clarification to the manuscript: The comparison is made using the maximum
likelihood estimation approach and calibrating the simulation model against the
historical data series are discussed in the “Calibration” section.
3- Please refer to “Results” section, second paragraph (Page 19). We just tried to choose
a fraction that make more sense based on our knowledge. For instance, it doesn’t seem
practical to decreased clothing risk in summer more than 20% because students wear
10
shorts all the time. Therefore, clothing risk is decreased by 20% in summer and fall for
the purpose of our intervention scenario; also, before applying the intervention, the
clothing risk is much lower in winter and spring due to cold weather and snow in our
region.
4- Thank you for raising this concern to help us clarify the validity of this section. We
provided the equations for the Awareness module in the supplementary materials
document, page1. These formulations capture a second order delay structure to describe
when awareness increases, which leads to the gradual growth of situational awareness of
people. We added a further description to the Awareness Module section on page 15-16.
The parameter values for this module are calibrated and final values are reported in
Table 3. The source of data used to validate the Awareness module is based upon the
conducted survey throughout the campus which has been explained in the “Discussion
and Conclusion” section, paragraph 2-4. We validate our simulation results based on
our survey results which show that in comparison with situational awareness, increased
awareness had less influence on controlling LD growth.
Results
1- Pg, 15, line 48: How was this calibration done?
2- Pg, 16, lines 3-16: It seems like this estimation procedure is fairly rough.
Was sensitivity analysis done using a range of values that match the range of
uncertainty in underreporting rates?
3- Pg, 16: Is Table 2 a complete list of parameters used in the model? How
did you decide which ones to fix and which ones to estimate?
4- Table 2 – What was the justification for the “We used” values. Many of
these are outside the ranges reported in literature so it’s unclear why they were
chosen. Similarly, some of the calibrated values are outside the estimation interval,
why? It seems these points should be discussed. If the model is using unrealistic
fixed values than predictions are likely biased, no?
5- Pg 17-18: Much of this is Discussion rather than results. For results I
would stick with just describing what the figures and stats report.
6- Pg 17: Increasing situational awareness is one of the main interventions
the authors are interested in but I have no idea how it was modeled! How do people
11
move from being aware to situationally aware? How do new people get factored in?
Can people lose situational awareness? I still don’t understand which data informed
this part of the module, and thus I couldn’t really evaluate whether the conclusion
that awareness was more important relative to other interventions (e.g. mouse
removal or clothing risk) was well supported.
Response:
1- We appreciate the reviewer asking this question. We restructured the ‘Results’ section
by adding the ‘Calibration’ section before presenting the ‘Results’. As explained under
this section, in order to calibrate the mode, we use the maximum likelihood estimation
approach and find estimates for the parameters’ values to minimize the error between
historical data and simulation results.
2- We appreciate the reviewer’s concern. Although we address the under-reporting of LD
cases by adopting White et al. (60) procedure and increase the numbers of cases by 20%,
we also capture the uncertainty of parameter values that are calibrated by also reporting
their confidence intervals in the result section, Table 3.
3,4 - To answer the concerns for both these sections, we added explanations for more
clarity in the newly added “Calibration” section, third paragraph (Page 18). We also
provided an additional response to the “Table 2” section of reviewer 1.
For the second part of the table, we also tried to find some intervals for parameters in the
literature and that is why we have reported some references in this section. However, we
couldn’t find intervals for every one of them and we just determined the intervals based
on our knowledge about the tick life cycle and LD transmission and our educated guess.
5-We appreciate feedback on this section and we agree with the reviewer comment.
Therefore, we moved most of the previous “Results” section to the current “Discussion
and conclusion” section, leaving only the description about different intervention
scenarios in the new “Results” section.
6- Again we thank the reviewer for raising this concern and helping us add more clarity
to the discussion. As we also responded to question 4 in “building the simulation model”
section, we have provided the equations for the Awareness module in the supplementary
materials document, page 1. Since there is a delay between the growth of awareness and
situational awareness, we used a second order delay structure in our SD mode to capture
12
how gradually people become situationally aware when their awareness level increases.
Also in our model we assume that when people become situationally aware, they won’t
lose it. We added this further description to the Awareness Module section on page 15-
16. The parameter values for this module are calibrated and final values are reported in
Table 3. The source of data used to validate these soft variables for the Awareness
module, is based upon the conducted survey throughout the campus which has been
explained in the “Discussion and Conclusion” section. We validate our simulation
results based on the survey results which show that in comparison with situational
awareness, an increase in awareness had less influence on controlling LD growth.
Discussion and Conclusion
Pg 21: I think the assertion that this could be used as a tool by public health
departments is a stretch. There was no description of the mechanics of model and
how to use it. What would a user-friendly interface look like for a model like this?
How much expert knowledge would be needed to uses it and interpret the output? Is
it computationally efficient? Does it rely on data that are readily collected by public
health departments – I think not.
Response:
Although the creation of a public health tool based on our simulation model would be a
future research project, we believe that it is feasible. Our current model is validated for
the University Campus area and other alternative interventions can be tested with this
model to explore recommendations for strategies to reduce the number of LD cases.
Currently we are in the process of expanding this model to the entire Broome county area
where the university campus is located and also the neighboring five counties within the
upper Susquehanna River Basin for which some fieldwork on reservoir, vector, and
human host has already begun.
We believe such simulation policy tools would have a very user friendly interface to be
used by the public without much expert knowledge about the model itself to answer “what
if” questions and study results instantly of how LD prevention strategies will likely
unfold. We plan to adopt other examples that have been implemented and used such as
13
the Rethink Health Simulator (https://www.rethinkhealth.org/resources-list/dynamic-
modeling-strategy/).
14
Society Open
