Comparative osteohistology of Hesperornis with reference
to pygoscelid penguins: the effects of climate and
behaviour on avian bone microstructure
Laura E. Wilson, Karen Chin
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140245.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140245
Review timeline
Original submission: 19 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 06 October 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 19 October 2014 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 22 October 2014
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140245.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an important paper in that Wilson and Chin use modern animals (penguins) to test their
bone histology hypotheses for the extinct Hesperornis. Too often in paleohistology, hypotheses
about the behaviors of extinct tetrapods are proposed without any basis using extant taxa. This is
especially the case with migration. Wilson and Chin are the first to examine the effects of
migration on bone histology specifically to test to see if any kind of pattern could be observed in
the fossil record of an animal with a similar lifestyle. Their results, that evidence of migration in
Hesperornis is inconclusive, is actually very important. It is made even more important because
the authors compared the bone histology of a migrating penguin species to one that does not
migrate, and again they found no appreciable differences. I have only minor comments for this
paper (see attachment [PDF available from the Editorial department upon request]). However,
one concern that I would like the authors to address before I would feel comfortable with its
publication is for them to explain growth marks and LAGs. This is not done anywhere in the
paper. I feel that before the authors can start talking about different papers’ interpretations of
presence or absence of LAGs, the authors need to explain what is meant by this term and why
LAGs are so important. If this were done in the results section this would also help with many of
my comments/concerns within the paper. In every tetrapod species for which there is data, LAGs
are demonstrated to be an annual occurrence, regardless of latitude or environmental conditions.
Thus, they form annually, but are not formed as a result of extraneous conditions.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Michael D'Emic)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I do not see any supplemental data. More data, supplemental or otherwise, should be
presented/added to the MS before it is published.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
Dear authors and editor, This paper is a concise, thorough, and well-executed study of the bone
microstructure of some extant and extinct aquatic birds and merits publication in this journal.
Particularly useful is the discussion/weighing of several hypotheses to explain the observed
variation. However, I have several recommendations that I believe should be implemented before
3
publication, mostly surrounding the presentation of the data, and so I have recommended major
revision. I think that before publication:
1) higher-magnification images should be provided in addition to the images already provided in
the figures, especially under polarized light to show the presence of lamellar bone, whose
existence in some of the figures is unclear (see below).
2) tables of measurements for all bones sampled should be provided (all standard measurements
plus circumference). From these data, body mass could then be calculated and presented. Body
mass has a very strong influence on bone histology, so presenting body masses is important in
the context of making comparisons.
3) photographs (perhaps just in supplemental information) of all bones sampled; multiple views
should be provided
4) some sort of quantification of histological features could be presented in making comparisons,
which would greatly improve the paper. Ideally, many variables would be measured (e.g.,
vascular density and orientation, osteocyte lacuna area, etc.) and a growth rate calculated using
the method of Cubo et al. (2012: Paleobiology). This manuscrip argues for a higher growth rate
for Gentoos than other penguins; actually estimating this rate and the rates of other penguins and
Hesperornis specimens would be very interesting and substantially broaden the study.
In addition, I have some more optional suggestions, outlined below, that I believe would
strengthen your paper. With these changes, I look forward to seeing this interesting study
published. Best, Mike D’Emic michael.demic@stonybrook.edu
General comments: As a general comment, I think it would be good to be more specific about
framing your descriptions and interpretations within the plane that the sections have been
observed at (the transverse plane of the bone). This matters - for example, several times osteocyte
lacunae are described as “flattened”, this could indicate oblate (disc) or prolate (cigar) ellipsoids,
depending on the unobserved dimension. This dimension is not readily predictable (see D’Emic
and Benson 2013, Bone 57:300-310). Reasons to be specific about the plane of section in making
descriptions were raised by Stein and Prondvai (2013): Biological Reviews. Basically, woven,
parallel-fibered, and lamellar bone can be mistaken for one another if only one section is
observed (see comments below on OCL/ELB).
In addition, it would be really helpful to the reader if the authors uploaded their stitched-together
histology images in high-resolution to Dryad or Morphobank or supplied them as Supplemental
information, unless another study is in progress.
As mentioned above, it would be very helpful if estimated body masses of the thin-sectioned
individuals were provided (perhaps calculated based on a recent paper by Field DJ, Lynner C,
Brown C, Darroch SAF (2013) Skeletal Correlates for Body Mass Estimation in Modern and Fossil
Flying Birds. PLoS ONE 8(11): e82000). Body mass is one of the most important determinants of
histology in birds and their relatives (D’Emic and Benson, 2013:Bone, Erickson et al., 2009:PLOS
ONE). What is the range of body masses in the sample?
In general, it would be good to comment on expected variability within a bone, an individual,
and a species. See D’Emic and Benson (2013) and Woodward et al (2014) for studies of variability
in the bone histology of archosaurs. Do these extinct birds match or exceed the expected
variability? line-specific comments: notation: p#ln# indicates page and line number.
Abstract: I would add one or more of the likely explanations as to why annual/seasonal variation
is not recorded in these bones. The best explanation, in my opinion, is that these birds grow to
adulthood within a year (see comments in the discussion).
p5, Materials and Methods: Eight bones were sectioned, three were unusable, one is presented in
this study…what about the other four? Even if they are only identified as birds rather than
Hesperornithiforms, Hesperornis, etc., they are useful comparative data. Do those sections show
cyclicity? Are they from adults? What is their body mass, growth rate (see below), etc.?
4
p10ln41: I don’t see truly lamellar bone or and OCL/EFS on some of the figures where they are
indicated (the Hesperornis ones especially; the Gentoo one looks somewhat convincing). Perhaps
this is just an issue with the resolution of the figures as I see them in the pdf, but I see no
circumferential lines, either as lines of arrested growth visible in bright field or light-dark
lamellar alterations visible in polarized light. For example, on figure 3C I see that there is a
relatively avascular layer externally and that it bright under polarized light, but I don’t see
alternating light/dark bands as would appear under lamellar bone. See Bromage et al (2003) Anat
Rec New Anat 274B:157–168 for examples of what I’d expect to see in lamellar bone. What it looks
like to me (again, from these figures, it could be different in person) is an outer avascular layer.
See Cubo et al. 2014 Biological Journal of the Linnean Society, 2014, 112, 668–677 for
discussion/description of what I mean about an outer avascular layer, which is different from a
lamellar layer or EFS as most (dinosaur) authors use those terms. Also, on figure 5G, H, what is
the tissue deep to the labelled lamellar bone? Is this medullary bone? It doesn’t look like it from
the figure, but it would be odd to have tissue deep to a true ELB layer.
p11ln3-14: There is a more updated study than Ponton et al. 2004 that could also be cited here:
Cubo et al., 2014, Biological Journal of the Linnean Society, 2014, 112, 668–677.
p14ln45: “Nevertheless, the findings are in agreement with Castanet et al.’s [27] overarching
statement that strong seasonality produces well developed growth marks in bone.” - empirical
data supporting this statement can be found in Kohler et al. 2012 (Nature), which I would suggest
citing here.
p17ln21-26: “Essentially no microstructure patterns are observed in the bones of migratory Adelie
and Chinstrap penguins that can be correlated with the physiological stress of long distance
migration” - change to microstructurAL; also, here and elsewhere I would be careful with
language…it should read “observed in the sampled bones” or “observed in the femur/etc” .
Perhaps ribs, pelves, or some other slower-growing bone (a bone that grew with negative
allometry) do show some cyclical growth patterns.
p17ln34: “The absence of growth marks may also be related to the attainment of skeletal maturity
within one year of hatching” - I think this is the most logical explanation, and therefore should be
stated a little more strongly and before the other explanations. The only sub-annual markers of
time in long bone histology that I’m aware of are multiple LAGs (e.g., double LAGs, Castanet et
al., 1987) or circa-weekly lamellae (Bromage et al., 2009). If adulthood is reached in a year, then
the absence of growth marks is the null hypothesis, which your results conform to.
p17ln34: Please provide references to support that these penguins grow to adulthood in a year
(They are the same ones cited in Table 2 probably?)
p17-18: It would be useful to measure the actual difference in proportion of radial versus other
canal orientations in the Gentoo versus other birds. This is not too difficult to do in imageJ (Cubo
et al., 2012, Paleobiology, and references therein).
Table 2: The growth constant isn’t “Time to grow between 10% and 90% of adult size”, it is the
highest slope of the growth curve in most traditional studies (e.g., Ricklefs’ studies)
5
label_end_comment
Decision letter
11-Sep-2014
Dear Dr Wilson,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Comparative osteohistology of Hesperornis with
reference to pygoscelid penguins: The effects of climate and behaviour on avian bone
microstructure") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below
(not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance. Please submit a copy of your revised paper within 21 days - given the
comments of the reviewers I have already extended the deadline (usually 14 days) by a week but
let me know if you need more time. Once submitted your paper may be returned to the previous
referees, or new ones if these are unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre. When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this
to document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor,
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for RSOS-140245.R0
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-140245.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Michael D'Emic)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
6
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No.
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
Dear authors,
Nearly all requested changes have been accommodated in a very detailed way - just a few minor
issues remain. I have viewed the morphobank site for the project and all of the data there look
great. Once the few minor issues (see below) are fixed, I fully support publication of this
important paper.
Best, Mike D’Emic
The response to reviewers file stated: “Changes were made to the footnote of Table 2 to reference
the definition of the “growth constant”, since these data are from a separate study published by
other researchers. This was cited in the table, but not the footnote. Citation was also added to text
where appropriate with a “sensu” to denote that we are following the definition in the cited
study. The issue here is that “growth constant” is not a time (as stated in the footnote), it is the
maximum slope of a regression line through growth data. I think this is even true “sensu” those
authors. This is why the growth constant is unitless (i.e., otherwise the table would suggest that
chinstrap penguins did most of their growing in 0.127 years, which is incorrect). See Ricklefs
(1968: Ibis vol 110) for description of this metric.
Page 12, line 2: “Cyclic growth marks like LAGs run parallel to the periosteal margin
(circumferential), completely circling the bone; they do not erode primary or secondary osteons
[53]. Annuli are regular deposits of bone tissue throughout the cortex, often characterized by
reduced osteocyte and/or vascular canal density.” The way this is written, I at first read that
these sentences were describing features in the cf. Hesperornis bones; which confused me given
the sentences above and in the discussion. I now see that these sentences are meant as
definitions/clarifications of what cyclic growth marks are…this should be moved up earlier in
the MS and rephrased to make sure there is no ambiguity.
page 17, line 3: in addition to citing figure 5, perhaps cite the table containing the vascular density
data as well.
page 18, line 34: “Cyclic growth marks are understood to be plesiomorphic or caused by
environmental cues [e.g., 73,74], and there is currently no evidence based on extant organisms
supporting environmental stress causing cyclic growth mark deposition in endotherms.” the
distinction between environmental “cues” and environmental “stress” isn’t clear to me, and it
seems subtle. The Kohler et al. paper that is cited linked LAG deposition to the “unfavorable
season”, i.e., a drier, darker, or resource-limited season. These attributes of the season where
LAGs are laid down could be construed as “cues” or “stresses.” Could you rephrase your
sentence to accommodate this subtlety?
7
Author's Response to Decision Letter for RSOS-140245.R1
See Appendix B.
Decision Letter (RSOS-140245.R2)
22-Oct-2014
Dear Dr Wilson,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Comparative osteohistology of
Hesperornis with reference to pygoscelid penguins: The effects of climate and behaviour on avian
bone microstructure" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science. You can
expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 days. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are likely to be away from e-mail
contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule, if
comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication. Royal Society
Open Science operates under a continuous publication model (http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article
will be published straight into the next open issue and this will be the final version of the paper.
As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers. As the issue version of your paper will
be the only version to be published I would advise you to check your proofs thoroughly as
changes cannot be made once the paper is published. In order to raise the profile of your paper
once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your paper to selected colleagues. If you wish
to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with the name and email addresses of up to 10
people who you feel would wish to read your article. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society
Open Science, we look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal. Best wishes, Ms
Charlotte Wray http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Appendix A
FORT HAYS STATE
UNIVERSITY
Forward thinking. World ready.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOSCIENCES
6 October 2014
Dear Reviewers and Editorial Board,
The Wilson & Chin manuscript (RSOS-140245) titled “Comparative osteohistology of
Hesperornis with reference to pygoscelid penguins: The effects of climate and behavior on avian
bone microstructure” was submitted for publication in August 2014 and sent out to review. Both
manuscript reviewers commented positively on the importance and thoroughness of the study,
but had recommendation and comments that needed to be addressed before the manuscript was
published. Given the reviewers’ concerns, the following changes were made to the manuscript:
• References updated and modified to include missing citations noted by both reviewers.
• General clarifications were made throughout the manuscript where confusion/clarity
were noted/requested by reviewers.
• Added details to “Materials and Methods”, including the buffer used in the buffered
formalin solution, emphasis of the plane of sectioning and analysis, polishing and
grinding protocol, modern bone dehydration, and notes on the sex of specimens.
Unfortunately, some information is unknown, such as the thickness of slides during
different stages of grinding and polishing and the sex of the penguin specimens. We also
added the plane of section/view to figure caption where not already specified.
• Added references to note whose terminology was followed in “Histological
Descriptions”. Also included description of what is meant by the term “fibrolamellar”
and “growth marks” in the study.
• Modified the language in the discussion of ELB (endosteal lamellar bone) and its
relationship to ontogeny/skeletal maturity so that the emphasis is on using ELB
formation as support (rather than a smoking gun) for skeletal maturity. Also removed
mention of bone size from commentary on skeletal maturity from the “Histological
Descriptions” section.
• Clarification made to the use of “outer circumferential layer” with regards to the “outer
avascular layer” referenced by the Cubo et al. 2014 study (per the request made by
Reviewer 2). These two terms are used to describe the same histological feature, based
on the fact that both our study and the Cubo et al. study site Ponton et al. 2004 with
regards to this structure (who refer to the periosteal layer signaling skeletal maturity in
bones as an outer circumferential layer). Clarifications were made to the text, reference
was added to the Cubo et al. study, and reference to an external fundamental surface
(EFS) was removed, as this is the term that seems to be causing confusion. The EFS in
non-avian dinosaurs is a different structure (as it often contains LAGs) from the OCL in
avian dinosaurs that achieve skeletal maturity within one year.
• Specifically stated in “Histological Descriptions” that specimens lacked LAGs.
• Added information on the appearance and formation of cyclic growth marks to the
“Discussion” section. Also edited language when discussing the cause/formation of
LAGs through the text.
• Added comments on expected variation in observed bone microstructure (with
appropriate citations) throughout the “Discussion” section.
1
FORT HAYS STATE
UNIVERSITY
Forward thinking. World ready.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOSCIENCES
• Included comments regarding timing of penguin migration with regards to skeletal
maturity added to Pygoscelis penguin discussion section. Essentially, the timing of
skeletal maturity within the framework of either migration or the onset of winter is
unknown and requires further research outside the scope of this project. This was noted.
• Emphasized the attainment of skeletal maturity within one year as likely explanation for
the absence of cyclic growth marks, including a statement added to the abstract.
• Changes were made to the footnote of Table 2 to reference the definition of the “growth
constant”, since these data are from a separate study published by other researchers. This
was cited in the table, but not the footnote. Citation was also added to text where
appropriate with a “sensu” to denote that we are following the definition in the cited
study.
• High resolution images used in the manuscript, composite sections, and additional
microscopy images were uploaded on Morphobank (Project P1270). Images of
specimens before sampling were also uploaded to the project. Reference to this was
added to the “Materials and Methods” section. Project P1270 will be made available to
the public should this study be published. Access can be provided to the reviewers prior
to publication.
• Table of measurements for all bones referenced in this study was added as supplemental
material and appropriately referenced in the text.
There were additional comments and requests made by the reviewer that either are not being
included in the revised manuscript or are partially being addressed. Those are:
• We opted to keep the language “ontogenetic stages”.
• Clarifications were made to “Materials and Methods” regarding the fossil specimens not
used in the manuscript. Although Reviewer 2 states that these specimens would be useful
comparative data, we are not comfortable including references to these specimens due to
taxonomy uncertainties. Some of the specimens are arguably non-avian theropod, so
without taxonomic certainty, it would be unclear how to interpret the presence or absence
of any histological patterns. Consequently, we have opted not to include the description
of taxonomically indeterminate specimens.
• Body mass calculations were not included. The metrics suggested for reference (Field et
al. 2013) are for volant birds, and all specimens in this study were/are flightless, which
would arguably skew the calculations greatly. Additionally, the fossil specimens are very
fragmentary and were isolated elements (unassociated with other skeletal elements).
However, previously published asymptotic sizes of the three penguin species from
Antarctica populations were added to Table 2 for reference. A second manuscript
focusing just on pygoscelid penguin histology is in preparation, and includes more detail
on the effects of body size on bone growth in these species.
• As mentioned in the above point, a more detailed description of the pygoscelid penguin
bone microstructure is in prep. That manuscript includes more quantifications of their
bone microstructure. We can reference that paper (as well as Wilson’s 2012 dissertation,
which also includes some of the quantifications), if needed. However, to increase the
robustness of the present study (as requested by Reviewer 2), we did add quantifications
of vascular canal density of the pygoscelid penguin samples. These quantifications are
2
FORT HAYS STATE
UNIVERSITY
Forward thinking. World ready.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOSCIENCES
referenced in the text, and a section on how the quantifications were calculated was
added to the methods section.
The reviewers provided excellent feedback and we feel that after incorporating their comments,
the manuscript presents stronger and clearer research. The reviewers put a lot of time and effort
into their assessments, and we have considered all of their requests with equal care. The reasons
for not adopting some comments in the manuscript are either (1) because there is a manuscript in
prep that goes into increased details about the penguin histology, or (2) the fragmentary nature of
the fossil material prior to sectioning. Hopefully the changes that have been made will be found
acceptable to the editors and reviewers.
Thank you for your time and consideration,
Laura E. Wilson
Assistant Professor & Curator of Paleontology
Fort Hays State University
Sternberg Museum of Natural History
3000 Sternberg Dr.
Hays, KS 67601
lewilson6@fhsu.edu
3
Appendix B
FORT HAYS STATE
UNIVERSITY
Forward thinking. World ready.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOSCIENCES
19 October 2014
Dear Reviewers and Editorial Board,
Reviews of the Wilson & Chin manuscript (RSOS-140245.R1) titled “Comparative
osteohistology of Hesperornis with reference to pygoscelid penguins: The effects of climate and
behavior on avian bone microstructure” were very positive. The manuscript was suggested for
publication with minor revisions. Given the reviewer comments, the following changes were
made to the manuscript:
• Changes were made in the wording of the footnote in Table 2 and in relevant portions of
the text to clarify that the measured penguin growth constant is the greatest slope of the
chick growth curve. Description of this metric as a “time” was removed.
• We moved the description of cyclic growth marks from the “Histological Descriptions”
section to the “Introduction” where CGMs are first mentioned. Hopefully this will reduce
confusion between the definition of terms and descriptions of histologic patterns
observed.
• Added reference to Table 2 when describing the vascular canal density in the text before
the “Discussion” (specifically on manuscript page 14).
• We changed the term “environmental cues” (manuscript page 15) to “seasonal and/or
intrinsic cues” to emphasize hormonal changes that may be associated with changes in
photoperiod, etc. and clarify this concept from “environmental stress”. We also added
clarification to “environmental stress” to emphasize episodic (stress) vs. periodic (cues)
events.
Reviewers and editors have provided thoughtful and thorough feedback through the review
process, and their comments have strengthened and clarified our manuscript. Hopefully the
changes we have made will be found acceptable.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely,
Laura E. Wilson
Assistant Professor & Curator of Paleontology
Fort Hays State University
Sternberg Museum of Natural History
3000 Sternberg Dr.
Hays, KS 67601
lewilson6@fhsu.edu
1
Society Open
