Photothermal raster image correlation spectroscopy of gold
nanoparticles in solution and on live cells
D. J. Nieves, Y. Li, D. G. Fernig and R. Lévy
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140454.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140454
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 November 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 30 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 May 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140454.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Enrico Gratton)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is clear
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This article by Nieves et al describes the use of photothermal imaging in a new modality for this
kind of detection, namely the Raster Scan Image correlation spectroscopy. The purpose of this
paper is to establish the method since there is no novel biophysical studies reported. In this
respect the authors point out the advantages in terms of no-bleaching of the photothermal
technique but also they discuss the limitations in regard to time of pixel acquisition which is
relatively slow in photothermal imaging.
The paper is relatively simple, the technique well described even for the non-expert and there is a
nice discussion about the technical challenges that need to be resolved for the application of the
photothermal RICS technique.
I have no particular comment about this paper. My major criticism is the lack of an important
application of the technique that will capitalize on the advantages of using gold nanoparticles
instead of fluorescent proteins.
Enrico Gratton
Laboratory for Fluorescence Dynamics
University of California, Irvine
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
The supporting info just consists of a sketch of some part of the experimental setup. I think its not
required in that form and should be integrated into the main text.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript by Nieves et al. on Photothermal raster image correlation spectroscopy (PhRICS)
of gold nanoparticles in solution and on live cells describes a method which is setup to measure
the mobility of gold nanoparticle tracers in various environments. The method is first developed
3
and demonstrated on solutions of gold nanoparticles in glycerol at various glycerol content. Later
it is shown that the method also works well within live cells. Due to the improved speed of the
method as compared to existing photothermal tracking data. The method is clearly a progress for
the diffusion measurement by photothermal measurements in live cells.
Before publication, I suggest that the authors consider carefully the following issues:
1) Throughout the paper the authors avoid to refer to any temperature of the gold nanoparticles.
Since photothermal detection relies on increased temperatures and this is also important for
measurements in live cells, the authors should estimate the temperature based on the absorption
cross section and the intensity of the heating laser.
2) Related to 1) is the fact that the authors refer to a changed hydrodynamic radius of the gold
nanoparticles at different glycerol content speculating on the hydration shell. The thermal
conductivity of water glycerol mixtures changes by about a factor of two when changing from
20% to 80% glycerol. Thus the gold nanoparticle temperature also changes by a factor of two,
which could make a huge impact on the diffusion depending on the total temperature rise of the
gold nanoparticle. The authors discuss this issue. I guess the influence of the hydration shell is
negligible.
3) It is sometimes difficult to see something useful from the 3D plots of the spatial correlation
function in the figures except that the is some. Especially in Figure 5C, the is a systematic
deviation from the model as also visible in Figure 3. I guess it would be very useful for the
readers to discuss this deviation.
4) There are a number of grammatical and orthographical issues the authors would like to
remove when carefully reading the manuscript. The is further a reference to figure 6C which I
assume should be 5C.
5) The supporting info Figure should be included in the main text.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140454)
07-Apr-2015
Dear Dr Nieves,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Photothermal raster image correlation spectroscopy
(PhRICS) of gold nanoparticles in solution and on live cells") has now received comments from
reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject
Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 30-Apr-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
5
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-140454)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
To the Subject Editor,
We would first like to thank you for allowing us to revise our manuscript (RSOS-
140454), in the light of the reviewers’ comments, for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. I would also like to express our gratitude for the excellent comments
and responses given by the selected referees, and also those who embraced the fully
open peer-review option provided by your journal. These comments have allowed us
to significantly improve the manuscript by the inclusion of discussion on the effect of
nanoparticle surface temperature observed here on diffusion, as well as further details
and clarification on the fitting and interpretation of the spatial correlation functions.
Below we respond in greater detail to the specific points raised by each of the
reviewers. We hope that not only our responses will sufficiently address the critiques
given by the reviewers, but also encourage discussion and further post-publication
peer review by those who read these comments when viewing the paper.
Reviewer 1:
Enrico Gratton,
Laboratory for Fluorescence Dynamics,
University of California, Irvine.
Firstly, would like to respond to the point that there is “the lack of an important
application of the technique that will capitalize on the advantages of using gold
nanoparticles instead of fluorescent proteins”.
The comparison between fluorescent and gold nanoparticle labels is not the focus of
the manuscript, since the suitability of the label is to a large extent determined by the
hypothesis being tested. Thus, the main advance reported in the manuscript is not
necessarily that the use of gold nanoparticles presents an inherent advantage over
fluorescent proteins, but as noted by Reviewer 2:
“Due to the improved speed of the method as compared to existing photothermal
tracking data. The method is clearly a progress for the diffusion measurement by
photothermal measurements in live cells.”
Thus, one advantage that is realised by the use of PhRICS to measure the diffusion
dynamics of gold nanoparticles in a photothermal set-up, is that it not only allows
acquisition of images that can provide spatial data about nanoparticle distribution,
similar to single particle tracking, but it also allows the measurement of diffusion at a
greater range of timescales, akin to PhACS. However, this was not clear in the
original text, and, therefore, the text has been modified (Page 2, Line 46-56).
A second advantage is that, in our experience, the signal from nanoparticles is greater
than that of fluorescently labelled fibroblast growth factors. While we do not know
whether this is generally true, and indeed with genetically encoded fluorescent
proteins expressed by cells, concentration is more difficult to ascertain than with
exogenously-added protein, we feel that this point is worth raising briefly here.
Thirdly, the use of gold nanoparticle probes offers the possibility to do correlative
measurements between the diffusion of molecules probed by PhRICS, and then fixing
samples to observe the distribution of binding sites via electron microscopy.
Reviewer 2:
Here we respond to the comments with the same numbering system used by Reviewer
2 for clarity.
1) “Throughout the paper the authors avoid to refer to any temperature of the
gold nanoparticles.”
We acknowledge that throughout the paper we make no reference to
temperature at the surface of the nanoparticle, due in part to the subject of the
paper not being about characterization of photothermal optical signals. These
omitted values are now included in text (Page 5, Line 218), and the
temperature gradient profiles in water, and various percentages of glycerol
(related to point 2) are now included in the supplementary information (Fig.
S1). Specifically, the reviewer makes reference to the impact of this
temperature rise on biological measurements:
“Since photothermal detection relies on increased temperatures and this is
also important for measurements in live cells, the authors should estimate the
temperature based on the absorption cross section and the intensity of the
heating laser”
The surface temperature increase is calculated to be ~ 15 K in water (thermal
conductivity used as a proxy for PBS) for our microscope set-up presented
here. This is not an insignificant temperature increase, however, a number of
factors reduce the impact of this on the structure and function of the FGF2
bound to the nanoparticle. Firstly, the nanoparticles used for the cell
experiments are prepared as described by in Ref. 45. They have a self-
assembled monolayer coating the nanoparticle surface. This monolayer adds
approximately 1-2 nm to the measured hydrodynamic radius of the
nanoparticles (measured in Ref. 39). The temperature rise at 2 nm from the
nanoparticle surface is then decreased to 12.5 K. This would be of concern if
the nanoparticle, and thus the FGF2 protein, was under constant observation,
for example, in a photothermal tracking experiment. However, in the PhRICS
method, the nanoparticle-labelled FGF2 is under observation for a short time,
of the order of microseconds, and if sampled multiple times on the order of
milliseconds. This is unlikely to perturb the secondary structure of the FGF2
protein bound to the cell surface heparan sulfate. The binding of FGF2 in the
extracellular matrix has been demonstrated, via heparinase digestion, to be to
the free binding sites of cell surface heparan sulfate (Ref. 18). Importantly, the
melting temperature of FGF2 increases markedly from 55-59°C to 70-90°C
when bound to heparin, an experimental proxy for cellular heparan sulfate
(Uniewicz, K. A., et al., (2010). Anal Chem, 82, 3796-3802 and Vemuri, S., et
al., (1994). J Pharm Pharmacol, 46, 481-486). Thus, local changes in
temperature in the environments of the FGF2 protein will not alter its structure
and so function.
2) “The thermal conductivity of water glycerol mixtures changes by about a
factor of two when changing from 20% to 80% glycerol. Thus the gold
nanoparticle temperature also changes by a factor of two…”
The temperature profiles for gold nanoparticles under continuous excitation in
the various concentrations of glycerol are now included in the supplementary
information. Reviewer 2 is indeed correct about the changes in the thermal
conductivity due to increasing glycerol concentration, however, this change is
approximately 1.6 times from 20 % (v/v) to 80 % (v/v) glycerol. The
calculated temperature changes are now outlined in the text (Page 5, Line
218). The reviewer also makes reference to a possible
“huge impact on the diffusion depending on the total temperature rise of the
gold nanoparticle”.
We are aware of this phenomenon, which is carefully discussed in the
literature, and referred to as “hot Brownian motion” (Ref. 41). Briefly, this has
been demonstrated experimentally for nanoparticles that have diameters of 40
nm or greater. Surface temperature rises in the region of those observed here
(i.e., 15 K in water) are shown in Ref. 41 no discernable hot Brownian motion
was observed for nanoparticles of 40 nm in diameter. Given that the
measurements of 8.8 nm here give diffusion coefficients that are not smaller
than expected and the measured sizes are consistent across the different
viscosities. Thus, it is unlikely at the surface temperature rises in the range
calculated here lead to observable thermally enhanced diffusion of 8.8 nm
gold nanoparticles in our set-up.
Reviewer 2 also questions the discussion of the hydration shell and stabilizing
ions being responsible for the consistent increase of the measured nanoparticle
diameter being approximately 1 nm greater than the average diameter acquired
by TEM. We accept that this explanation in hindsight is unlikely to be as
pronounced as we first described, and is likely to be “negligible” as the
reviewer rightly suggests. A much more plausible explanation, now described
in the manuscript (Page 5, Lines 221-225), is the presence and measurement
of clusters of a few particles whose intensity will be larger than the
monodisperse nanoparticles in solution. Depending on the intensity of the
clusters it is possible that their contribution is significant enough to affect the
calculated spatial correlation, as described in J. V. Rocheleau, et al. (2003),
Biophys J, 84, 4011-4022 (now Ref. 57), and can lead to decrease the
measured diffusion coefficient. However, the sizes extracted in the paper are
still consistent across all the glycerol concentrations and within the error of the
TEM measurement.
3) “It is sometimes difficult to see something useful from the 3D plots of the
spatial correlation function in the figures except that the is some.”
The 3D plots of the spatial correlation fitting are indeed there to show that the
fit has been carried out and the goodness of fit of the spatial correlation to the
fitting model. We appreciate that the plots can be uninformative to those who
are not familiar with correlation spectroscopy techniques and data
representation; therefore, the range of maximum reduced chi-square values for
the fitting functions used to deduce the diffusion coefficients within the
manuscript are now included in text (Page 5, Line 208 and 244-245). For each
point of the RICS function the standard deviation of the image stack is
calculated. This value is then used as the “error” of each point to calculate the
reduced chi-square reported (Ref. 30).
The inclusion of such values also relates also to the second point Reviewer 2
makes here.
“Especially in Figure 5C, the is a systematic deviation from the model as also
visible in Figure 3. I guess it would be very useful for the readers to discuss
this deviation”
We agree that it is interesting to discuss this deviation from the model, which
is not actually, as large as suggested (see reduced chi-square values; Page 5,
Line 224). When fitting spatial correlations that are not from simulated data, it
is likely that fluctuations are contributed from not only the monodisperse
species we desire to measure, but also from larger brighter clusters, as
described above. This is especially pertinent in the case of a cell experiment,
for example, in Figure 5C, where a larger deviation from the model is seen, as
queried by Reviewer 2. It is clear from the image data presented that the
FGF2 protein does not have homogeneous diffusion behavior or distribution,
observed previously by photothermal microscopy and quantified by electron
microscopy (Ref. 18). Thus, we will get contributions to the spatial correlation
from multiple species, i.e., “mobile” and “immobile”, “monomers” and
“multimers”. This means that the model used here for free diffusion may not
best describe the data, especially if the moving average does not remove the
intense “immobile fraction” effectively. Possible further improvement to this
would be to fit the data with a model that describes a binding-unbinding
behavior and/or to fit for the presence of two diffusive populations. These
points are dealt with in the changes to the text (Page 5, Lines 221-225)
described for point 2 made by Reviewer 2.
4) Reviewer 2 identified some typographical errors in the manuscript, which
have now been corrected.
5) “The supporting info Figure should be included in the main text.”
This figure (formerly, Fig. S1) has now been moved to the main manuscript
and is now Fig. 1, other figures have been amended with new figure numbers.
We would like to close by again thanking the referees for their discussion provoking
comments, and hope that readers of the manuscript will also join in with this
discussion upon publication.
Yours Sincerely,
Dr. Daniel Nieves (on behalf of all the authors)
Society Open
