Mechanical analysis of avian feet: multiarticular muscles in
grasping and perching
Spencer B. Backus, Diego Sustaita, Lael U. Odhner and Aaron M. Dollar
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 140350.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140350
Review timeline
Original submission: 3 October 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 29 January 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 February 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140350.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an interesting paper using a novel approach to further the understanding of avian foot
function. The authors show using a simplified model of a bird foot that grasping can be
successfully achieved through several differing foot morphologies and actuated through a single
distally inserted flexor tendon. On the other hand perching behaviours require proximally
inserted flexors. Their simulation results were also reflected in the sample size of bird
musculature data obtained from the literature.
There are areas of the manuscript, such as the results, figures and discussion, which lack clarity
where a few amendments would greatly improve the overall read and reader understanding of
the paper.
Page 2, lines 8-39 – This section could be shortened but also it would be more relevant towards
the end of the introduction before going into the methodologies used
Page 2, line 50 – Please give examples of the ‘various aspects of their foot anatomy’ that these
attributes are reflected in.
Figure 1 – These are the first time readers will see the abbreviations, so they need to written out
fully with the abbreviations in brackets in the legend. The figure itself is also very busy with lines
and writing and somewhat difficult to follow. Digits I and III could be indicated similarly to how
the normalised total span of the foot is shown. This would then leave more room for the other
details.
Page 3, line 29-35 – This sentence was confusing, please re-phrase.
Page 3, line 33 – ‘P’ is not defined previously before the abbreviation is used.
Page 3, line47 - MFPPD2 is used on page 15, but not defined as the abbreviation in this line.
Please check all names are written out in full before the abbreviations are given.
Page 5, line 3 – ‘of’ missing after ‘aspects’
Page 9 – most of the first two paragraphs of the results are identical to the figure legends for
figures 5, 6 and 7. Instead rather than having the same writing in both areas, it would be helpful
here to have a description of how the parametric and bird-based data are similar or different.
Particularly figure 6 appears that the bird based data are often outside the region of where both
single and fully-actuated models exist.
Figure 7 – It would be useful to have the subheadings ‘downward’ and ‘upward’ as subheadings
on the figures so that the legend doesn’t need to be constantly re-read. Also a small inset
schematic representing these force applications would also be helpful in the figure.
Figure 8 – As with figure 7, adding in subheadings for ‘object diameter’ and ‘talon length’ would
help clarify the plots. Particularly with this figure, there is no discussion later in the discussion
section as to why there is such a vast discrepancy between the bird based data and the
parametrically obtained data, particularly in the perching behaviour? Is some of this an artefact
that the bird based data were mainly from raptors or is it that the perching behaviour has been
oversimplified, without considerations of perch compliance that will require other forces to
counteract etc...?
Figure 9 – what are the horizontal black lines and the error bars indicating? An arrow indicating
more distal muscles would be useful next to the coloured legend.
Page 15, lines 3-7 – Where is the evidence showing the application of tendon tension or the large
contact forces? I could not find this in the manuscript nor in the supplementary data.
Page 15, lines 30-32 – Although grasping was modelled here as a simplified downward force, and
that different raptors dispatch prey differently, grip may immobilise prey to a certain extent, but
often prey are likely to struggle, exerting more medial and upward forces, not just downward
3
forces. How would this affect your expectations for a single distally inserted flexor? More
proximally inserted flexors would surely be required as well?
Page 16, first section – There seems to be no discussion of the fact that, particularly in figure 6, it
is visible that the bird based data rarely fall in the boundary for single tendon perching. This
seems to be a big difference from that found with the grasping behaviour and therefore warrants
discussion. Also discussion into the raptors talon for immobilisation explains some of the
differences between bird-based and parametric in grasping, but often these raptors also perch,
and this model produced a much large discrepancy between bird-based and parametric in this
behaviour. Also why is there such a large difference between the bird-based and model results as
seen in figures 7 and 8?
Page 16, line 44 – confusing sentence, please re-phrase
Figure 10 – Could an example of the contact forces and tendon tension be shown on these
summary figures as mentioned on page 15?
Supplementary table 2 – what are the units for each column?
Supplementary simulation results – what are the units for each column?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
YEs
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Review of RSOS-140350
Mechanical analysis of avian feet: multiarticular muscles in grasping and perching
Backus et al.
Overview:
This paper presents a mechanical analysis of the mechanics of avian foot function focused on the
potential evolutionary consequences of variation in relative lengths of the segments (phalanges)
and digital flexor musculature among various taxa. The two functional tasks were the grasping
behavior of a simplified bird foot for force production for (i) carrying prey and (ii) perching. The
analysis is based on how changes in foot geometry favors relative phalanx lengths actuated by
4
one muscle that inserts at the most distal segment. But perching force production is predicted to
be favored when tendons insert at the intermediate segments. The simplified mechanical analysis
is relevant and the results are tenable. But the multiple simplifications and assumptions lead one
to question their robustness and generalizability.
Major points:
1. The work is done systematically and with an aim to obtain meaningful results for a
specific function. However, so many assumptions and simplifications are made along the way
that it is not clear if the conclusions can be as strong as they are portrayed. I would suggest that
the conclusions not be worded as strongly as they are now, and that a section in the discussion
list and summarize the assumptions and simplifications to with respect the robustness of the
conclusions and speculations that are being reached.
2. The analysis is presented in line with the prior work of the Dollar group. But there are
important omissions in the presentation of this type of feasibility analysis in other biomechanical
and robotics context. For example, the work of
Storace, A., Wolf, B., 1982. Kinematic analysis of the role of the finger tendons. Journal of
Biomechanics 15, 391—393.
The work of
Kamper et al. Extrinsic flexor muscles generate concurrent flexion of all three finger joints,
Journal of Biomechanics 35 (2002) 1581–1589
also addresses the issue of finger flexion under the influence of flexor tendons.
More recently
Inouye et al. Anthropomorphic tendon-driven robotic hands can exceed human grasping
capabilities following optimization. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 2013.
explores the evolutionary consequences of tendon routing and muscle strength.
This paper should cite this kind of prior work that since the 80’s looks at related issues so that the
reader can place the current approach in perspective.
3. In general the MS is difficult to follow because of the numerous abbreviations and
tendon names that are not defined in the figure captions and cannot be found easily in the text. I
would suggest a table that list them early on. Also all abbreviations begin with M for muscle….
this is perhaps unnecessary.
4. A better description of how directions of motion for each foot bone relate to degrees of
freedom at each joint would be helpful.
5. Sentence beginning with “The actuation of these hands resembles the tendon actuation
seen in birds’ feet, and analysis techniques …” Please provide some evidence or reasoning to
support the use of hand-biomechanics analysis techniques on bird foot mechanics, perhaps by
highlighting specific resemblances of the two systems. Place in context of prior work as
mentioned above.
6. The friction coefficients of 0.36 and 5.7, and the friction cone angles of 20 and 80 degrees
have no citations, and appear to be chosen arbitrarily. Some explanation why these values were
selected is important.
5
7. In figure 5, When D1P1 is around .2 to .3, and D3P1 is between .1 and .2, there’s a
consistent gap. This concavity and a gap appears in Figure 6 too. Please discuss this. Note that
none of the living species land in this range, thus this morphological space could be selected
against.
8. The ecomorphological comparison in Figure 9 absolutely requires a phylogeny.
Considering the historical constraints on these species would be required in order to suggest
anything about how ecology is related to morphological function. If these two groups bifurcated
long ago with a common ancestor, then phylogenetic noise would be high. If these taxa are not
phylogenetically clustered (independently sampled), only then we would be able to suggest an
ecomorphological constraint on bird foot anatomy.
9. “From our simulation, we show that birds can perform grasping tasks using only distally
inserted muscles under most circumstances with potentially little or no increase in required
tendon force.” This model only presented this for a planar 2D model. Some discussion should be
included on the torques a bird would produce, and in a three-dimensional model. Again this
relates to the robustness and generalizability of the results and their interpretation.
10. The mechanical problem of the over-constrained problem of forces in the wrap-around
grasp that is perching in this case, cannot be underestimated. There are many potential solutions
given the many contact points, soft tissue will play a role, as will the time history of the making
and breaking of contacts. The authors allude to this. But it must be made clear in the discussion
that the conclusions drawn may not be supported by the analysis.
Minor points
>>Sentence beginning with “However, the maximum number of active (i.e. articulable with the
muscles) …” Is both hard to parse, and is a run-on sentence. Breaking up this section into a few
smaller sentences will make a more clear description of directions of motion in bird species, and
how the different bones and joints are interrelated.
>> “In this way, contact is enabled not by the action of individual tendons/joints, but by the
multiarticular routing of a single tendon.” Replacing ‘individual’ with ‘multiple’ makes this more
clear.
>>“Our approach here differs fundamentally from these works in that we apply UAM principles
and analytical techniques, instead, to inform aspects <<INSERT ‘OF’>> avian hindlimb functional
morphology that have long been subject to data deficiency and speculation.”
>>I would suggest adding that your paper provides experimental context and data to prior
studies of avian feet.
>> In Figure 1, The individual tendon routings are very difficult to see on a printed page.
Increasing vertical distance between tendon lines would help the upper diagram of this figure.
>> In Figure 4 the applied force vectors on the left diagram are too small to see or interpret.
Either increase the size of both figures, or the size of the vectors for better visibility. A scale bar
for output force should be included with units in Newtons.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-140350)
07-Jan-2015
Dear Mr Backus,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Mechanical analysis of avian feet: multiarticular
muscles in grasping and perching") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like
you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can
be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does
not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 30-Jan-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
7
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
label_version_2
RSOS-140350.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix A.
pendix A
ments to Author:
iewers' Comments to Author:
iewer: 1
ments to the Author(s)
is an interesting paper using a novel approach to further the understanding of avian foot function.
authors show using a simplified model of a bird foot that grasping can be successfully achieved
ugh several differing foot morphologies and actuated through a single distally inserted flexor
don. On the other hand perching behaviours require proximally inserted flexors. Their simulation
lts were also reflected in the sample size of bird musculature data obtained from the literature.
re are areas of the manuscript, such as the results, figures and discussion, which lack clarity where a
amendments would greatly improve the overall read and reader understanding of the paper.
appreciate the reviewer’s accurate and concise summary of our work and detailed review.
e 2, lines 8-39 – This section could be shortened but also it would be more relevant towards the end
he introduction before going into the methodologies used
have streamlined the intro and removed the last paragraph, so that the pertinent information is
er to the methods section.
e 2, line 50 – Please give examples of the ‘various aspects of their foot anatomy’ that these
ibutes are reflected in.
have added illustrative examples of the “various aspects of foot anatomy” that we refer to
re 1 – These are the first time readers will see the abbreviations, so they need to written out fully
the abbreviations in brackets in the legend. The figure itself is also very busy with lines and writing
somewhat difficult to follow. Digits I and III could be indicated similarly to how the normalised total
n of the foot is shown. This would then leave more room for the other details.
full names of the muscles have been added to the legend. The abbreviations themselves were no
er necessary in the legend, so we removed them in the interest of space. The figure has also been
ified to include annotations showing the two digits as suggested.
e 3, line 29-35 – This sentence was confusing, please re-phrase.
sentence has been revised to make it clearer.
e 3, line 33 – ‘P’ is not defined previously before the abbreviation is used.
e 3, line47 - MFPPD2 is used on page 15, but not defined as the abbreviation in this line. Please check
ames are written out in full before the abbreviations are given.
ause of their infrequent use, these two (and most other abbreviations) are now written out for clarity.
e 5, line 3 – ‘of’ missing after ‘aspects’
appreciate the reviewer’s detailed reading of our paper and identification of these errors in our
uscript. We have corrected all of the typos identified by the reviewers.
e 9 – most of the first two paragraphs of the results are identical to the figure legends for figures 5, 6
7. Instead rather than having the same writing in both areas, it would be helpful here to have a
cription of how the parametric and bird-based data are similar or different. Particularly figure 6
ears that the bird based data are often outside the region of where both single and fully-actuated
els exist.
uggested we have revised these paragraphs, reducing the repetition of information from the figure
tions and instead discuss the broad trends the figures show and how the bird based kinematics relate
ur simulated results.
re 7 – It would be useful to have the subheadings ‘downward’ and ‘upward’ as subheadings on the
res so that the legend doesn’t need to be constantly re-read. Also a small inset schematic
esenting these force applications would also be helpful in the figure.
he reviewer suggested, we have added insets to the subplots showing an example grasp and force
ction.
re 8 – As with figure 7, adding in subheadings for ‘object diameter’ and ‘talon length’ would help
fy the plots. Particularly with this figure, there is no discussion later in the discussion section as to
there is such a vast discrepancy between the bird based data and the parametrically obtained data,
icularly in the perching behaviour? Is some of this an artefact that the bird based data were mainly
raptors or is it that the perching behaviour has been oversimplified, without considerations of
h compliance that will require other forces to counteract etc...?
ough we appreciate the reviewer’s suggestion, in this case we believe that adding subfigure headings
ld be redundant since the x-axis labels (diameter and average talon length respectively) duplicate
t the subfigure headings would be. However we agree that there was an insufficient discussion of
the bird based and parametric results differ as much as they do and therefore we have added a
e extensive discussion of the reasons why the bird based data differs from the parametrically
erated data in section 6.2 (Other kinematic factors). To summarize, the bird-based kinematics are all
tered in a small region of the parameter space where valid kinematic solutions are more likely to
t, resulting in a greater portion of the bird based kinematics having valid solutions.
re 9 – what are the horizontal black lines and the error bars indicating? An arrow indicating more
al muscles would be useful next to the coloured legend.
lines and error bars referred to here are no longer present since figure 9 has been substantially
nged based upon reviewer two’s comments.
e 15, lines 3-7 – Where is the evidence showing the application of tendon tension or the large
tact forces? I could not find this in the manuscript nor in the supplementary data.
ough our numerical results (included in the data supplement) do show this relationship between
on tension and contact forces discussed here directly, the reviewer correctly pointed out that the
lts that we present in the paper do not clearly show these trends. Therefore these lines have been
sed to emphasize the difference between the fully actuated and single tendon grasps as shown in
re 4.
e 15, lines 30-32 – Although grasping was modelled here as a simplified downward force, and that
erent raptors dispatch prey differently, grip may immobilise prey to a certain extent, but often prey
likely to struggle, exerting more medial and upward forces, not just downward forces. How would
affect your expectations for a single distally inserted flexor? More proximally inserted flexors would
ly be required as well?
agree with the reviewer in that when grasping, birds may encounter many other possible object force
ctions or more complex applications of object force than we considered in our model. However
eling all of these possibilities quickly becomes intractable because of the size of the parameter
ce. Therefore, we have attempted to address the reviewers concerns by going into greater depth in
ion 6.3 discussing why we limit the disturbance force directions we search over and how small
nges in the direction affect the results.
e 16, first section – There seems to be no discussion of the fact that, particularly in figure 6, it is
le that the bird based data rarely fall in the boundary for single tendon perching. This seems to be a
difference from that found with the grasping behaviour and therefore warrants discussion. Also
ussion into the raptors talon for immobilisation explains some of the differences between bird-
ed and parametric in grasping, but often these raptors also perch, and this model produced a much
e discrepancy between bird-based and parametric in this behaviour. Also why is there such a large
erence between the bird-based and model results as seen in figures 7 and 8?
ion 6.2 has been significantly revised and expanded to discuss factors that relate to the mapping
ween the bird based kinematics and the parametrically generated grasp results.
e 16, line 44 – confusing sentence, please re-phrase
sentence has been rephrased
re 10 – Could an example of the contact forces and tendon tension be shown on these summary
res as mentioned on page 15?
figure reference has been modified to reference figure 4 instead because this figure better shows the
on and contact forces. Although we agree with the reviewer’s suggestion that showing the contact
es is useful on diagrams of the grasps, in this case we believe that adding them to figure 10 would
rly complicate the figure and is unnecessary since the contact forces in these examples are already
wn in figure 4.
plementary table 2 – what are the units for each column?
at point – units (mm) have been specified.
plementary simulation results – what are the units for each column?
ause of how our simulation was parameterized, all results are normalized by a reference parameter
are therefore unit less. The link lengths and object diameter were normalized by the total foot span
e the tendon forces were normalized by the force applied to the object. A row at the top of this table
been added with these descriptions of how the parameters were normalized.
iewer: 2
ments to the Author(s)
iew of RSOS-140350
hanical analysis of avian feet: multiarticular muscles in grasping and perching
kus et al.
rview:
paper presents a mechanical analysis of the mechanics of avian foot function focused on the
ential evolutionary consequences of variation in relative lengths of the segments (phalanges) and
tal flexor musculature among various taxa. The two functional tasks were the grasping behavior of a
plified bird foot for force production for (i) carrying prey and (ii) perching. The analysis is based on
changes in foot geometry favors relative phalanx lengths actuated by one muscle that inserts at the
t distal segment. But perching force production is predicted to be favored when tendons insert at
intermediate segments. The simplified mechanical analysis is relevant and the results are tenable.
the multiple simplifications and assumptions lead one to question their robustness and
eralizability.
or points:
The work is done systematically and with an aim to obtain meaningful results for a specific
tion. However, so many assumptions and simplifications are made along the way that it is not clear
e conclusions can be as strong as they are portrayed. I would suggest that the conclusions not be
ded as strongly as they are now, and that a section in the discussion list and summarize the
mptions and simplifications to with respect the robustness of the conclusions and speculations that
being reached.
reviewer is correct in pointing out that our results are not definitive and are limited by the
roximations we were forced to make. Although it was not our intent to overstate the strength of our
el’s results, we have revised the discussion and conclusion sections. We now go into greater detail
ussing the assumptions and approximations that the model relies upon and the potential impacts
have on the results in the discussion section (section 6.3 in particular). We have also revised the
clusions to more clearly show how our modeling results support trends observed in various bird
ies while emphasizing that these relationships are simply correlation, not conclusive.
The analysis is presented in line with the prior work of the Dollar group. But there are important
ssions in the presentation of this type of feasibility analysis in other biomechanical and robotics
text. For example, the work of
ace, A., Wolf, B., 1982. Kinematic analysis of the role of the finger tendons. Journal of Biomechanics
391—393.
work of
per et al. Extrinsic flexor muscles generate concurrent flexion of all three finger joints, Journal of
mechanics 35 (2002) 1581–1589
addresses the issue of finger flexion under the influence of flexor tendons.
e recently
ye et al. Anthropomorphic tendon-driven robotic hands can exceed human grasping capabilities
wing optimization. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 2013.
ores the evolutionary consequences of tendon routing and muscle strength.
paper should cite this kind of prior work that since the 80’s looks at related issues so that the reader
place the current approach in perspective.
appreciate the reviewer’s suggested references and now include citations to these, as well as a few
itional influential works, in section 3.2.
In general the MS is difficult to follow because of the numerous abbreviations and tendon names
are not defined in the figure captions and cannot be found easily in the text. I would suggest a
e that list them early on. Also all abbreviations begin with M for muscle…. this is perhaps
ecessary.
agree with the reviewer’s opinion that the numerous abbreviations made parts of the manuscript
cult to follow. To address this we significantly reduced the number of terms that we abbreviate
ng the full name for less commonly used terms), and have now ensured that all of the remaining
reviations are clearly defined when they first appear in the manuscript.
A better description of how directions of motion for each foot bone relate to degrees of freedom at
h joint would be helpful.
have added a description of the relationship between direction of motion and degree of freedom in
ion 3.1. Specifically each degree of freedom has two directions of motion. For example a phalangeal
t with one rotational degree of freedom is capable of flexion and extension, two actuate-able
ctions of motion.
Sentence beginning with “The actuation of these hands resembles the tendon actuation seen in
s’ feet, and analysis techniques …” Please provide some evidence or reasoning to support the use of
d-biomechanics analysis techniques on bird foot mechanics, perhaps by highlighting specific
mblances of the two systems. Place in context of prior work as mentioned above.
sentence has been revised to better describe the parallels between bird feet and underactuated
ds. More specifically, we propose that the potential for birds to rely on fewer flexor tendons than
rees of freedom in their feet presents a natural analog to underactuated hands that are actuated by
ally inserting flexor tendons and are capable of grasping with fewer actuators than degrees of
dom.
The friction coefficients of 0.36 and 5.7, and the friction cone angles of 20 and 80 degrees have no
tions, and appear to be chosen arbitrarily. Some explanation why these values were selected is
ortant.
specific values of the friction coefficients were selected arbitrarily since we were unable to find
surements of the coefficients of friction between birds feet and various objects. However the value
he proximal contacts (0.36) is within the range of many experimental results (0.2- 0.7) and similar to
t has been used in other simulations. The distal value is much harder to justify since we are assuming
the talon penetrates the object and therefore are not actually dealing with friction. Instead it
esponds to the talon tip shearing through the grasped object and will be highly dependent on the
erial properties of the object. We have attempted to clarify these assumptions in the manuscript
tion 4.3).
In figure 5, When D1P1 is around .2 to .3, and D3P1 is between .1 and .2, there’s a consistent gap.
concavity and a gap appears in Figure 6 too. Please discuss this. Note that none of the living species
in this range, thus this morphological space could be selected against.
ough we agree with the reviewer that there appears to be a region centered around D1P1 = 0.2 to
and D3P1 = 0.1 to 0.15 where single tendon solutions cannot be found, there is nothing unique
ut this region. Instead, like other areas of the parameter space where a single tendon solution cannot
ound, here the lack of a solution simply stems from the particular combination of kinematic
ameters and the resulting grasp pose resulting in a poorly conditioned grasp. We now discuss this in
Discussion section (particularly section 6.3) of the paper.
The ecomorphological comparison in Figure 9 absolutely requires a phylogeny. Considering the
orical constraints on these species would be required in order to suggest anything about how
ogy is related to morphological function. If these two groups bifurcated long ago with a common
estor, then phylogenetic noise would be high. If these taxa are not phylogenetically clustered
ependently sampled), only then we would be able to suggest an ecomorphological constraint on bird
anatomy.
point was very well taken, and we have revised figure 9 with a phylogeny, and reference readers to a
e extensive phylogenetically-corrected analysis in the supplementary materials that accounts for the
ogenetic clustering of our samples.
“From our simulation, we show that birds can perform grasping tasks using only distally inserted
cles under most circumstances with potentially little or no increase in required tendon force.” This
el only presented this for a planar 2D model. Some discussion should be included on the torques a
would produce, and in a three-dimensional model. Again this relates to the robustness and
eralizability of the results and their interpretation.
The mechanical problem of the over-constrained problem of forces in the wrap-around grasp that
erching in this case, cannot be underestimated. There are many potential solutions given the many
tact points, soft tissue will play a role, as will the time history of the making and breaking of contacts.
authors allude to this. But it must be made clear in the discussion that the conclusions drawn may
be supported by the analysis.
e again, these are excellent points. We have greatly expanded the discussion of the model limitations
tion 6.3) and now go in to greater detail discussing the implications of out model including the over-
rmined nature of the grasps we model, the investigation of only two principal object force directions,
planar 2D simplification, and limitations of our approach to defining the grasp pose.
or points
entence beginning with “However, the maximum number of active (i.e. articulable with the muscles)
s both hard to parse, and is a run-on sentence. Breaking up this section into a few smaller sentences
make a more clear description of directions of motion in bird species, and how the different bones
joints are interrelated.
sentence has been revised to make it clearer.
In this way, contact is enabled not by the action of individual tendons/joints, but by the
tiarticular routing of a single tendon.” Replacing ‘individual’ with ‘multiple’ makes this more clear.
Our approach here differs fundamentally from these works in that we apply UAM principles and
lytical techniques, instead, to inform aspects <<INSERT ‘OF’>> avian hindlimb functional morphology
have long been subject to data deficiency and speculation.”
se changes have been implemented as suggested.
would suggest adding that your paper provides experimental context and data to prior studies of
n feet.
thank the reviewer for this insight, and have added a sentence to this effect.
n Figure 1, The individual tendon routings are very difficult to see on a printed page. Increasing
ical distance between tendon lines would help the upper diagram of this figure.
re 1 has been revised to improve readability including increasing the spacing between the tendon
s.
n Figure 4 the applied force vectors on the left diagram are too small to see or interpret. Either
ease the size of both figures, or the size of the vectors for better visibility. A scale bar for output
e should be included with units in Newtons.
uggested, the diagrams in this figure have been enlarged to make them more legible. Although the
nitude of the force vectors in the left diagram are still relatively small, the scale on these arrows has
been altered to ensure that the relationship between the length of a force vector and the applied
e is consistent in both diagrams. The caption has also been amended to better explain that the force
ors shown here are unit less.
ociate Editor's comments:
ociate Editor: 1
ments to the Author:
ou will see from the comments, both reviewers judge this manuscript to be a solid paper applying
hanical analysis to the mechanics of avian foot function. Reviewer 1 raises a number of points
rding the clarity of the presentation and readability of the paper. Reviewer 2 would like the authors
rovide additional information and clarification about the modeling analysis, with appropriate
lification of the findings in light of simplifying assumptions. This reviewer also requests that the
hors’ revise the text to better put the work into context of previous literature and address the likely
eralizability of the modeling results.
e authors can address these points, I would be happy to see a revised version of the manuscript.
ociate Editor: 2
ments to the Author:
re are no comments.)
Society Open
