Adsorption of heavy metal with modified eggshell
membrane and the in situ synthesis of Cu–Ag/modified
eggshell membrane composites
Yaqing Xin, Caihong Li, Jianing Liu, Jinrong Liu, Yuchen Liu, Weiyan He and Yanfang Gao
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180532.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180532
Review timeline
Original submission: 20 April 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 July 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 15 August 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180532.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript used modified eggshell membrane (MESM) to remove Cu2+ and Ag+ from
water. And then, the material after adsorption was reused by in-situ preparing Cu-Ag/MESM to
catalyze the reduction of 4-nitrophenol. Generally, this work is interesting, and may attract the
readers of the journal. I recommend its acceptance for publication. However, some issues should
be addressed before its final acceptance.
Specific comments:
1. The author should strengthen the introduction. For example, why did the author choose Cu2+
and Ag+ as adsorption targets instead of other representative heavy metal ions? What
modification was used for ESM? Why? In the paragraph 2 of page 2, some previous method
(including adsorption) for heavy metal removal was thought of disadvantages, why did author
still choose adsorption for heavy metal ion removal? In addition, some works (such as J. Agric.
Food Chem. 2014, 62, 8051; Journal of Chromatography A, 2010, 1217, 5659) on the application of
ESM should in cited in this section.
2. As compared to previous work (Wang S, Wei M, Huang Y; J. Agric. Food Chem., 2013, 61(21):
4988-4996.), what is the advantage of MESM in this work? After all, a higher adsorption of Cu2+
and Ag+ would benefit for the following preparation of catalyst.
3. In the paragraph 2 of page 6, the author thought “at pH<2, the surface charge of the
adsorbents was positive, and H+ competed effectively with the metal cations”. It confuses me
why the H+ would compete with metal cations to adsorb on the material with same positive
charge? Same question was existed in paragraph 3 of page 7.
4. A clear and deep discussion for the adsorption mechanism was expected. For example, what is
the role of modified functional groups in adsorption? As comparison, the adsorption capacity of
ESM should also be evaluated.
5. Compared the SEM of MESM (figure 6b) and Cu2+-Ag+/MESM (figure 6c), it is surprising that
noticeable particles can be observed on Cu2+-Ag+/MESM. It is 10 µm used as the scale bar in
those SEM. I don’t think it is capable to exhibit the presence of metal ions.
6. The English should be polished.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Nour Ahmed Abd el-Sataer)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
3
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The paper show a good example for green chemistry
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180532.R0)
27-Jun-2018
Dear Mr Liu:
Title: Adsorption of heavy metal with modified eggshell membrane and in situ synthesis of Cu-
Ag/MESM composites
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180532
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 20-Jul-2018). If we do not hear
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
4
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Eva
Hevia.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
5
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This manuscript used modified eggshell membrane (MESM) to remove Cu2+ and Ag+ from
water. And then, the material after adsorption was reused by in-situ preparing Cu-Ag/MESM to
catalyze the reduction of 4-nitrophenol. Generally, this work is interesting, and may attract the
readers of the journal. I recommend its acceptance for publication. However, some issues should
be addressed before its final acceptance.
Specific comments:
1. The author should strengthen the introduction. For example, why did the author choose Cu2+
and Ag+ as adsorption targets instead of other representative heavy metal ions? What
modification was used for ESM? Why? In the paragraph 2 of page 2, some previous method
(including adsorption) for heavy metal removal was thought of disadvantages, why did author
still choose adsorption for heavy metal ion removal? In addition, some works (such as J. Agric.
Food Chem. 2014, 62, 8051; Journal of Chromatography A, 2010, 1217, 5659) on the application of
ESM should in cited in this section.
2. As compared to previous work (Wang S, Wei M, Huang Y; J. Agric. Food Chem., 2013, 61(21):
4988-4996.), what is the advantage of MESM in this work? After all, a higher adsorption of Cu2+
and Ag+ would benefit for the following preparation of catalyst.
3. In the paragraph 2 of page 6, the author thought “at pH<2, the surface charge of the
adsorbents was positive, and H+ competed effectively with the metal cations”. It confuses me
why the H+ would compete with metal cations to adsorb on the material with same positive
charge? Same question was existed in paragraph 3 of page 7.
4. A clear and deep discussion for the adsorption mechanism was expected. For example, what is
the role of modified functional groups in adsorption? As comparison, the adsorption capacity of
ESM should also be evaluated.
5. Compared the SEM of MESM (figure 6b) and Cu2+-Ag+/MESM (figure 6c), it is surprising that
noticeable particles can be observed on Cu2+-Ag+/MESM. It is 10 µm used as the scale bar in
those SEM. I don’t think it is capable to exhibit the presence of metal ions.
6. The English should be polished.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The paper show a good example for green chemistry
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180532.R0)
See Appendices A & B.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180532.R1)
15-Aug-2018
Dear Mr Liu:
Title: Adsorption of heavy metal with modified eggshell membrane and the in situ synthesis of
Cu-Ag/modified eggshell membrane composites
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180532.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Eva
Hevia.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Appendix A
Dear Dr Laura Smith,
Firstly, we should make thanks to your consideration on our manuscript of
“Adsorption of heavy metal with modified eggshell membrane and in situ synthesis of
Cu-Ag/MESM composites” (Manuscript ID: RSOS-180532)
We have carefully read the comments of the reviewers and revised the manuscript
based on the questions. At the same time, we have revised the manuscript, presented
“A list of changes and rebuttals” in the attached scope, and listed the comments and
our responses to the comments as follows:
Reviewer: 1
Comments 1): The author should strengthen the introduction. For example,
why did the author choose Cu2+ and Ag+ as adsorption targets instead of other
representative heavy metal ions? What modification was used for ESM? Why?
In the paragraph 2 of page 2, some previous method (including adsorption) for
heavy metal removal was thought of disadvantages, why did author still choose
adsorption for heavy metal ion removal? In addition, some works (such as J.
Agric. Food Chem. 2014, 62, 8051; Journal of Chromatography A, 2010, 1217,
5659) on the application of ESM should in cited in this section.
Respond: Thank you very much for your good comments.
(1) Two kinds of heavy metals are of concern, including toxic metals (such as Hg, Cr,
Pb, Zn, Cu, Ni, Cd, As, Co, Sn , etc.), precious metals (such as Pd, Pt, Ag, Au, Ru
etc.). The simulated wastewater in the present paper was collected from the east Wu
Qi mining area of Xilinguole Meng, Inner Mongolia. According to the
characteristics of local mineral resources, the reserves of Zn, Cu, Ag and Cd are
large, therefore, Cu and Ag were chosen as models to study the effect of
representative heavy metal ions during the process of adsorption and preparation of
functional materials. We also considered that the researches on biological adsorption
dealing with Cu and Ag, and on the preparation and application of functional
materials for Cu and Ag were recently received extensive attention, so the
information that can be used for reference would be sufficient.
(2) Biomass materials need to be modified before they are used as adsorbent for
wastewater treatment. The modification methods include physical, chemical and
other methods. Chemical modification is more commonly used because of its
simplicity and efficiency. The modifiers used in chemical modification consist of
acids, alkalis, minerals, organic acids, oxidants, etc. The mechanisms of chemical
modification include the increase of bonding sites, elimination of the interference
loci on the surface of biomass and encapsulation of the biomass with ionic polymer
containing more functional groups bonded with metal ions to increase the adsorption
capacity. Liu et al. (J. Mater. Chem., 2011, 21, 17413–17418) synthesized
polyethyleneimine (PEI) functionalized eggshell membrane(PEI-ESM) based on the
cross linking reaction between aldehydes in glutaraldehyde and functional groups
such as amines and amides in ESM. The maximum equilibrium adsorption capacity
for Cr(VI) can reach about 160 mg/g with an initial pH of 3.0. Wang et al (J. Agric.
Food Chem., 2013, 61, 4988-4996)synthesized a new biosorbent material from
eggshell membrane through thiol functionalization based on the reduction of
disul<U+FB01>de bonds in eggshell membrane by ammonium thioglycolate. The effects of
using thiol-functionalized eggshell membrane as an adsorbent to remove Cr(VI),
Hg(II), Cu(II), Pb(II), Cd(II), and Ag(I) from aqueous water were investigated. The
experimental results revealed that the adsorption abilities of the thiol-functionalized
eggshell membrane toward Cr(VI), Hg(II), Cu(II), Pb(II), Cd(II), and Ag(I)
improved 1.6, 5.5, 7.7, 12.4,12.7, and 21.1 fold, respectively, compared with that of
the eggshell membrane control.
(3) In the treatment of heavy metal wastewater, the adsorption method still has many
advantages as follows: easy operation under field conditions, adsorbents renewable,
no sludge produced in the process, high recovery rate of heavy metals (Journal of
the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers, 2017, 78: 168-177, Bioresource
Technology, 2017, 241: 482-490), more suitable for the adsorption of heavy metals
in low concentration (Science Direct, 2017, 9(4): 10534-10538), etc. At present,
however, the adsorbent active carbon, used widely by adsorption method, is
expensive, short service life and high cost of regeneration, which limits the wide
application of activated carbon adsorption to a certain extent. The purpose of this
study was to prepare cheap and efficient adsorbent materials and to study the effects
of the operating conditions on the metal loading and the mechanism of the
adsorption process. The focus was on the treatment of adsorbents loaded heavy
metals for in situ preparing functional materials with excellent performance to avoid
the possible secondary pollution in the process of regeneration of adsorbents.
(4) The research works of Wang et al on the application of ESM have been cited in
this section(See paragraph 3 of page 3 and reference 27 and 28).
The above part of the content is also supplemented in the corresponding
paragraphs of the introduction(see “A list of changes and rebuttals” in the attached
scope).
Comments 2) As compared to previous work (Wang S, Wei M, Huang Y; J.
Agric. Food Chem., 2013, 61(21): 4988-4996.), what is the advantage of MESM
in this work? After all, a higher adsorption of Cu2+ and Ag+ would benefit for
the following preparation of catalyst.
Respond: MESM prepared in this paper was to treat ESM with cheaper sodium
hydroxide and sodium sulfide solution. In comparison, the modification method of
ESM was simpler and cheaper. When the initial concentration of the metal solution
was 100mg/L, the adsorption capacity to Cu (II) and Ag (I) was 24.98 and
48.75mg/g, respectively. It was obvious that the adsorption capacity of MESM was
lower than that of the reported TESM(46.73 and 129.87mg/g to Cu (II) and Ag (I),
respectively) under the same initial concentration of the metal solution(J. Agric.
Food Chem., 2013, 61, 4988-4996). In this paper, however, the role of MESM was
not only as an adsorbent, but also as a template and carrier for the preparation of
materials. Moreover, the results of our study showed that the physical and chemical
properties and catalytic performance of materials did not be improved with the
increase of the metal ion loaded. As shown in figure 1, Ag (I)/MESM with different
Ag (I) loads( 23.43 to103mg/g ) were obtained by changing the initial concentration
of Ag (I) solution, and catalytic performance of Ag/MESM composites prepared
using Ag (I)/MESM with Ag (I) load 64.80mg/g as raw materials was the best.
Therefore, for the next material preparation process, there was an optimum value of
metal ion loading.
0
-1
ln( c/c0)
-2
-3 23.43 mg/g
34.70 mg/g
43.62 mg/g
53.31 mg/g
64.80 mg/g
79.26 mg/g
-4 103.00 mg/g
-10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
Time(min)
Fig. 1 Effect of Ag(I) loading amount on the reduction rate of 4-nitrophenol
Comments 3) In the paragraph 2 of page 6, the author thought “at pH<2, the
surface charge of the adsorbents was positive, and H+ competed effectively with
the metal cations”. It confuses me why the H+ would compete with metal
cations to adsorb on the material with same positive charge? Same question
was existed in paragraph 3 of page 7.
Respond: As you thought, It was true that this part of the original text was not clear
and confusing. The explanations are as follows: pH values can affect the surface
charge of adsorbents, the degree of ionization and speciation of heavy metals, the
competition of the metal ions with coexisting ions in solution (Bioprocess Eng.,
2010, 15, 86-102). The surface of MESM was covered with hydroxyl, carboxyl and
sulfhydryl groups that varied in form at di<U+FB00> erent pH levels. Adsorption of metal
ions on the MESM might be attributed to electrostatic interaction, ion exchange and
coordination effect with chelating ligands containing N and S on the surface of
MESM. At lower pH, functional groups on the surface of MESM were protonated to
form the positively charged sites and electrostatic repulsion occurred between metal
ions and the positive surface of the MESM, leading to the decrease in the level of
metal ion adsorption by MESM. At the same time, the concentration of H+ was high
at lower pH, and as a result, hydroxyl group on the surface of MESM was
neutralized by H+ and favored the adsorption of this species leading to competition
with metal ions on the basis of chemical reaction mechanisms except electrostatic
interaction and thus also resulting in the decrease in the level of adsorption of metal
ions.
The blurred place in the text has also been changed accordingly(see “A list of
changes and rebuttals” in the attached scope).
Comments 4) A clear and deep discussion for the adsorption mechanism was
expected. For example, what is the role of modified functional groups in
adsorption? As comparison, the adsorption capacity of ESM should also be
evaluated.
Respond: In order to explore the adsorption mechanism of MESM to Cu2+ and Ag+,
the infrared spectra of MESM after loading Cu2+ and Ag+ were analyzed. The results
are shown in Figure 2(Figure 5 in the revised manuscript). It can be seen from the
diagram that the main functional groups of Cu2+/MESM and Ag+/MESM have
changed compared with the infrared spectra of MESM. The hydroxyl peaks of
3282cm-1 move to 3279 ~ 3275cm-1; C-OH bond in 1080cm-1 have a small shift; the
asymmetric and symmetrical stretching vibration peaks of C=O in 1639 and 1449
cm-1 move slightly; the peak near the sulfhydryl groups in 2974 cm-1 is weaker and
new peaks appear in the range of 895 to 905cm-1, which indicated that the hydroxyl,
carboxyl and sulfhydryl groups on MESM were involved in the adsorption process
of Cu2+ and Ag+. Combined with the results of the effect of pH on the adsorption
process, it was speculated that the adsorption mechanism of MESM to Cu2+ and Ag+
might mainly include the exchange of ions with H+ in hydroxyl, carboxyl, sulfhydryl
groups, the coordination effect with chelating ligands containing N and S atoms of
MESM(Chemical Engineering Journal, 2012, 209(41):394-400) and electrostatic
attraction between metal ions and the negative surface of the MESM at pH greater
than pHzpc.
The above contents are also supplemented in the corresponding paragraph(see
“A list of changes and rebuttals” in the attached scope).
Figure 2 FTIR spectra of MESM, Cu/MESM and Ag/MESM composites
Comments 5) Compared the SEM of MESM (figure 6b) and Cu2+-Ag+/MESM
(figure 6c), it is surprising that noticeable particles can be observed on
Cu2+-Ag+/MESM. It is 10 µm used as the scale bar in those SEM. I don’t think
it is capable to exhibit the presence of metal ions.
Respond: As you thought, it was not capable to exhibit the presence of metal ions in
the SEM diagram with a scale bar of 10 µm. We considered that Cu2+-Ag+ should
exist in the form of its corresponding salt on MESM. Moreover, the particles in
figure 6c should be secondary particles of salt formed by Cu2+-Ag+ rather than
primary particles, so the particle size was larger and morphology was clearer.
Through this SEM diagram, we just proved that Cu2+-Ag+ did load on MESM by
adsorption.
Comments 6) The English should be polished.
Respond: We have revised the whole manuscript carefully to avoid language errors.
During the revised processes, we invited Jeff who works in Scientific Writing
Solutions, USA (www.sciwriting.com) to check the English and attached to the
“English editing certificate”. We believe that the language is now acceptable for the
review process, and we wish that you accept our revision.
All changes are listed in the following table, please see “a list of changes and
rebuttals”.
A list of changes and rebuttals
The sites in Manuscript Revised manuscript
manuscript
Title Adsorption of heavy metal with Adsorption of heavy metal with
modified eggshell membrane modified eggshell membrane and the
and in situ synthesis of in situ synthesis of Cu-Ag/modified
Cu-Ag/MESM composites eggshell membrane composites
In abstract: line 2-3, 1. by biosorption method and 1. through biosorption method with
line5-7, line 13 take advantage of heavy modified biomass as both
metals adsorbed for effective sorbent and prepare
preparing metal/biomass metal/biomass composites with
composites with modified the same modified biomass as
biomass as both effective direct template.
sorbent and direct template. 2. electrostatic interaction, ion
2. to electrostatic interaction exchange and coordination
and ion exchange between effect with chelating ligands
the metal ions and the containing N and S on the
binding sites on the surface surface of MESM.
of MESM. 3. and recycled.
3. for recycling
In the paragraph 2 In these methods, there are Although, there are signi<U+FB01>cant
of page 2:line 3-5 signi<U+FB01>cant disadvantages such disadvantages in these methods, such
as incomplete removal, as incomplete removal, high-energy
high-energy requirements, and requirements and the production of
production of secondary secondary pollution [7] , the
pollution [7]. adsorption method is more suitable
for the adsorption of heavy metals in
low concentration because it is easy
to operate under field conditions,
with renewable adsorbents, and high
recovery rate and without sludge
produced[8,9,10]. However, the
widely used adsorbent-active carbon
is expensive with short service life
and high cost of regeneration, which
limits the application of activated
carbon adsorption to a certain extent.
Most importantly, in the process of
adsorbent regeneration, it may cause
waste of resources and secondary
pollution of the heavy metals.
Therefore, during the adsorption of
heavy metal from wastewater, it is
necessary to prepare cheap and
efficient adsorbent materials and to
study the method of desorption and
recycling of heavy metals after
adsorption.
In the paragraph 2 Normally, adsorption ability of Typically, adsorption ability of
of page 2:line 11-13 natural biomass materials is natural biomass materials is limited,
limited, so it is necessary to thus, physical and chemical
improve the adsorption capacity modi<U+FB01>cation is required to improve
by physical and chemical the adsorption capacity [2,17], in
modi<U+FB01>cation [2,14]. which chemical modification is more
commonly used because of its
simplicity and efficiency. The
modifiers used in chemical
modification consist of acids, alkalis,
minerals, organic acids, oxidants,
etc. in order to increase bonding sites
on the surface of biomass, and
eliminate the interference of
biomass. For example, encapsulation
of the biomass with ionic polymer
containing more functional groups
can bond with metal ions to increase
the adsorption capacity of biomass.
Polyethyleneimine
(PEI)-functionalized eggshell
membrane(PEI-ESM) was prepared
through the cross linking reaction
between aldehydes in glutaraldehyde
and functional groups such as amines
and amides in ESM. Its maximum
equilibrium adsorption capacity
towards Cr(VI) can reach about 160
mg/g with an initial pH of 3.0 [18].
Thiol-functionalized eggshell
membrane was synthesized from
eggshell membrane through thiol
functionalization based on the
reduction of disul<U+FB01>de bonds in
eggshell membrane with ammonium
thioglycolate. With
thiol-functionalized eggshell
membrane as an adsorbent, the
removal of Cr(VI), Hg(II), Cu(II),
Pb(II), Cd(II), and Ag(I) from
aqueous water were investigated.
The experimental results revealed
that the adsorption abilities of the
thiol-functionalized eggshell
membrane towards Cr(VI), Hg(II),
Cu(II), Pb(II), Cd(II), and Ag(I) were
improved by 1.6, 5.5, 7.7, 12.4,12.7,
and 21.1 folds, respectively,
compared to that of the eggshell
membrane itself[19].
In the paragraph 2 The simulated wastewater in this
of page 3:line 19- work was collected from the east Wu
Qi mining area. According to the
characteristics of local mineral
resources, the reserves of Zn, Cu, Ag
and Cd were large, therefore, Cu and
Ag were chosen as models to study
the effect of representative heavy
metal ions during the adsorption and
preparation of functional materials.
In the paragraph 1 of because of HS- from hydrolysis because HS- from hydrolysis of Na2S
page 6:line 15-16 of Na2S replacing H in replaced H in -CH2-SH of cysteine.
-CH2-SH of cysteine.
In the page 6:line 20 3.2 Effect of pH on adsorption 3.2 Effect of pH on adsorption and
adsorption mechanism of MESM
In the paragraph 2 of For this research system,at pH With pH<2, functional groups on
page 6:line 2-5 <2, the surface charge of the the surface of MESM were
adsorbents was positive, and H+ protonated to form the positively
competed effectively with the charged sites and electrostatic
metal cations, causing a repulsion occurred between metal
decrease in adsorption capacity ions and the positive surface of the
[2]. MESM, leading to the decrease in
the level of metal ion adsorption on
MESM due to the electrostatic
interaction. Meanwhile, the
concentration of H+ was high at a
low pH, thus hydroxyl group on the
surface of MESM was neutralized by
H+ and favored the adsorption of this
species leading to its competition
with metal ions and the decrease of
metal ion adsorption.
In the paragraph 3 of because MESM formed the because MESM formed the
page 7:line 6-8 positively charged sites, the positively charged sites, electrostatic
binding sites of MESM were repulsion occurred between metal
occupied by part of protons, ions and the positive surface of the
which competed with metal MESM, leading to the decrease of
ions, resulting in the decrease of metal ion adsorption on MESM.
the adsorption capacity of metal
ions.
In page 8:line 5- In order to further demonstrate
the adsorption mechanism of MESM
to Cu2+ and Ag+, the infrared spectra
of MESM after the loading of Cu2+
and Ag+ were analyzed. As shown in
Figure 5, the infrared spectra of main
functional groups of Cu2+/MESM
and Ag+/MESM had changed
compared with that of MESM. The
hydroxyl peaks of 3282cm-1 moved
to 3279- 3275cm-1, C-OH bond at
1080cm-1 had a small shift, the
asymmetric and symmetrical
stretching vibration peaks of C=O at
1639 and 1449 cm-1 moved slightly,
the peak near the sulfhydryl groups
at 2974 cm-1 was weaker and new
peaks appeared in the range of 895 to
905cm-1, which indicated that the
hydroxyl, carboxyl and sulfhydryl
groups on MESM were involved in
the adsorption process of Cu2+ and
Ag+. According to the the effect of
pH on the adsorption process, the
adsorption process of MESM
towards Cu2+ and Ag+ might mainly
include electrostatic interaction
between negatively charged sites on
the surface of MESM and metal
cations, the exchange of ions with H+
in the hydroxyl, carboxyl, sulfhydryl
groups and the coordination effect
with chelating ligands containing N
and S atoms of MESM[40].
In the paragraph 3 of figure 6c shows the image of Figure 7c shows the image of
page 8:line 9-11 Cu2+-Ag+/MESM. The MESM Cu2+-Ag+/MESM. The MESM fibers
fibers are almost “coated” with are almost “coated”with particles of
metal ions (Cu2+ and Ag+). metal salt formed from metal ions
(Cu2+ and Ag+).
In the paragraph 2 of The concentration of NaBH4 The concentration of NaBH4 was
page 10:line 17-19 was exceeds signi<U+FB01>cantly signi<U+FB01>cantly excessive compared
compared with that of 4-NP and with that of 4-NP. Thus, the
thus the concentration of concentration of NaBH4 could be
NaBH4 can be considered as a considered as a constant,
constant,
Figure 5 was added
Many thanks for your comments.
The manuscript has been resubmitted to your journal. We look forward to your
positive response.
Thank you for your consideration and your time.
Sincerely yours,
Dr. Caihong Li, Prof.
College of Chemical Engineering,
Inner Mongolia University of Technology,
Huhhot 010051, PRC
Appendix B
Certificate of English Editing
Dear Editor:
This is to certify that the manuscript entitled “Adsorption of heavy metal with modified
eggshell membrane and the in situ synthesis of Cu-Ag/modified eggshell membrane
composites” has edited by Scientific Writing Solutions, USA for English writing. Our
editors are professionals in the US academic institutions whose research areas are closed
related to the researches in the manuscripts. They are English native speakers and their
editing skills passed our vigorous tests. If you have any questions, please contact me at
Editor@Sciwriting.com.
Sincerely yours,
Jeff Johnson
Scientific Writing Solutions, USA
831 Beacon Street, Boston, MA 02459
Email: Editor@sciwriting.com
www.sciwriting.com
www.sciwriting.cn
Society Open
