Humans permanently occupied the Andean highlands by at
least 7Ka
Randall Haas, Ioana C. Stefanescu, Alexander Garcia-Putnam, Mark S. Aldenderfer, Mark
Clementz, Melissa S. Murphy, Carlos Viviano Llave and James T. Watson
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170331.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170331
Review timeline
Original submission: 11 April 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 26 May 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 1 June 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170331.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Charles Stanish)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a very good paper that should be published. Along with bone chemistry, the strongest
evidence that supports the conclusion is the burial demographic data. The choice of the term
"relatively standard population profile" is accurate but inadequate. Please add a few more lines
that lets the readers know that you are aware of 1) the methodological issues on determining
adult age-at-death distributions in archaeological samples and 2) the issues surrounding the use
of model life tables in bioarchaeology/paleodemography.
Charles Stanish, UCLA
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Jose Capriles)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Please see attachment. (Appendix A)
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170331)
19-May-2017
Dear Dr Haas
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170331 entitled
"Humans permanently occupied the Andean Altiplano by at least 7ka" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
3
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170331
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
4
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 28-May-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
Both reviewers were favourably inclined towards the manuscript. The second has a number of
very constructive comments that would greatly enhance the relevance and reach of the paper. In
your revision, please do try to incorporate these suggestions where possible.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a very good paper that should be published. Along with bone chemistry, the strongest
evidence that supports the conclusion is the burial demographic data. The choice of the term
"relatively standard population profile" is accurate but inadequate. Please add a few more lines
that lets the readers know that you are aware of 1) the methodological issues on determining
adult age-at-death distributions in archaeological samples and 2) the issues surrounding the use
of model life tables in bioarchaeology/paleodemography.
Charles Stanish, UCLA
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Please see attachment.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170331)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170331.R1)
01-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Haas,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Humans permanently occupied the
Andean Highlands by at least 7ka" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
6
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
paper by Randall Haas, Ioana C. Stefanescu, Alexander Garcia-Putnam, Mark S. Aldenderfer, Mark
mentz, Melissa S. Murphy, Carlos Viviano Llave, and James T. Watson “Humans permanently
upied the Andean Altiplano by at least 7ka” is an important and well-structured report. The thesis of
paper is that the burials from the open-air site of Soro Mik'aya Patjxa in the Ilave River valley of
uvian southern Andes bear evidence of permanent human habitation in the Andean highlands (above
00 m above sea level) by ca. 7000 cal BP (7ka). The authors propose three different models regarding
much time human were spending on the highlands and evaluate them using five hypotheses
ted to different lines of evidence. As a result they argue that all five hypotheses provide support for
manent human habitation in the highlands by 7000 cal BP. I believe this investigation merits
lication and the theme of high-elevation adaptation is significant, but I also consider that some of
arguments and data presented by the authors warrant further discussion.
iscussed by the authors, previous scholars have argued that humans adapted to the Andean high-
ations by the terminal Pleistocene mostly based on radiocarbon dates associated to archaeological
facts and features. Nevertheless, unlike these previous studies, this investigation is based on the
arkable evidence provided by a unique assemblage of 16 individuals dated between 8.5 and 6ka and
viously reported by Haas and Viviano Llave (2016). As such, the core of the data consists of
haeometric analysis of these burials.
arding the first hypothesis, the authors use oxygen stable isotopes to evaluate the origin of the
viduals. Although their results are consistent with available baseline modern data, particularly
ause the values they report are heavily depleted of d18O values, something consistent with highland
es, an important aspect that should be further discussed is how d18O values were affected by
ate change given that d18O values varied over time. Paleoclimatological records suggest the Andes
e dryer than today during the period of study, which might be represented as more depleted d18O
es not only for the highlands but also the western Andean valleys.
ther important aspect that authors should discuss in greater detail is the potential role of diagenetic
tamination in masking a local signature. Although the pretreatment and analytical protocol provided
he Supplementary Materials suggests this is an unlikely possibility, given that the authors analyzed
r isotopic values from bone apatite and not from the organic fraction, this remains a possibility, in
ch case, it would not be surprising that they document values consist with high-elevations as these
es could represent the underlying local geology. Trace element concentrations are often employed
valuate the potential effect of diagenetic contamination so if these data are available (and support
ence of diagenetic contamination), it would be ideal.
arding the second hypothesis, just as in the previous case, a first issue is that given that the isotopes
e collected from bone apatite and not from collagen, then the possibility of diagenesis affecting the
ults is non-negligible. The authors mention two values from collagen samples collected in the context
roducing radiocarbon dates of Burials 9 and 16, presumably included in the top panel of Figure 3,
a more specific control of their results is necessary. I recommend the authors provide the carbon,
ogen and C:N ratios of the collagen fractions of individuals 9 and 16 mentioned in the supplementary
erials. A comparison of Table 1 and Figure 3, suggests that the d13C values of the apatite and
agen fractions of these individuals were significantly different, something that may be attributed to
tionation processes, should be further discussed.
cond issue is related to controlling the effects of climate and environmental change on the local and
onal vegetation’s isotopic composition. Although analyzing modern plant communities might
vide baseline data for highland vegetation isotopes, this information cannot be directly extrapolated
he past as plant communities have changed dramatically over the last seven millennia. Moreover,
authors use baseline data from significantly distant regions (northern Chile and northwest
entina) from their study site, so those values might actually vary in important ways. This is
ticularly important because isotope values provide ranges based on individual species and not on
emblages. For instance, a local vegetation patch might include taxa with a wide range of isotopic
es, but the actual abundance of plants in this patch might favor a single species narrowing the
rall isotopic range, which can then be potentially skewed in a certain direction by an animal foraging
his given patch. In other words, isotopic data can rarely use in a probabilistic scheme to which the
a can be compared.
lated issue is the origin of the values presented in the second panel of Figure 3. The authors should
cify how these values were collected, establish if specific plant determinations were carried out, and
ess how representative of the charred plant remains these results are. I would caution using these
es if they represent the d13C from the radiocarbon dates, which usually derive from fractionation
cesses not related with an environmental signal.
arding the third hypothesis, Soro Mik'aya Patjxa is certainly situated quite away from low-elevation
ons but so are many other high-elevation late Pleistocene and early Holocene archaeological sites,
ch have been argued to have non-permanent human occupations. For instance, Cueva Bautista,
ed to ca. 12,700 cal BP and featured in Figure 1, is situated in a similar geographic condition to lower
ations as Soro Mik'aya Patjxa, but no permanent human habitation is claimed for this site (see
riles et al. 2016). Although the authors explicitly mention cross-cultural ethnographic examples
arding the extent of hunter-gatherer’s residential mobility, many ethnographic examples provide
ence of extremely long movements of people. Indeed, the peopling of the New World seems to
e featured a pattern of extreme mobility that could have extended into the Holocene. Perhaps it
uld be helpful here to illustrate the existence of other contemporary sites as these could map
ential mobility cycles involving temporary residential or logistical moves from the lowlands towards
highlands, but also within specific environments.
arding the fourth hypothesis, the demographic composition of the site is interesting because the
ple includes individuals from different age classes. Although this is interesting and also speaks about
burial customs of these early hunter-gatherers, it fails to consider the osteological paradox (Wood et
992), by which burial assemblages do not necessarily reflect an actual demographic profile. In any
e, the 16 burials correspond to a temporal range that exceeds a millennium (even the two directly
ed human remains have non-overlapping date ranges), therefore it is very difficult to warrant the
e-averaging of this sample for either this or the other hypotheses.
arding the fifth hypothesis, it is very interesting that all of the lithics were manufactured in local raw
erials. This pattern is very peculiar and seems to differ from most Archaic Period sites from the
es where the presence of exotic raw materials is not particularly high but definitely ubiquitous.
ough the authors report (in the supplementary materials) that most of these lithic raw materials
e available in the Ilave River valley, given the general description of the materials it is also certainly
sible that some of these materials were collected in lower elevations as are visually indistinguishable
m those of higher elevations. In fact, the observed pattern could be explained by a very constrained
bility and procurement pattern but also the result of embedded lithic procurement strategy.
lly, there is abundant archaeological literature documenting high-elevation occupations in the Andes
nning much of the extent of human occupation in South America and this case study can help
ance our interpretation of these sites. Therefore, my final comment is related to the concept of
rmanent.” Although it is certainly possible that the site of Soro Mik’aya Patjxa consists of a year-
nd occupation, I am not sure if this would warrant that the altiplano was permanently settled. Many
haeological sites from the Andean highlands have been radiocarbon dated after 9ka, but the same
ence suggests that human occupation in the Andean highlands was quite sparse during much of the
y and middle Holocene as environmental conditions constrained population growth and expansion.
period is critical as the domestication of key plants such as potatoes and quinoa as well as animals
h as the llama and alpaca where domesticated. It is also possible that the key adaptive biological
ts that many Andean peoples evolved began their selective process during this time. Therefore
erstanding the complex human-environment interactions, including how intense was the altiplano
upied is significant.
erences
riles, J. M., Albarracin-Jordan, J., Lombardo, U. Osorio, D. Maley, B., Goldstein, S. T., Herrera, K. A.,
scock, M. D., Domic, A. I., Veit, H., Santoro, C. M. 2016, High-altitude adaptation and late Pleistocene
ging in the Bolivian Andes, Journal of Archaeological Science: Reports 6:463-474.
s, W. R., Viviano Llave, C. 2015. Hunter-gatherers on the eve of agriculture: investigations at Soro
’aya Patjxa, Lake Titicaca Basin, Peru, 8000–6700 BP. Antiquity 89: 1297-1312.
od, J. W., Milner, G. R., Harpending, H. C., Weiss. 1992. The osteological paradox: problems of
rring prehistoric health from skeletal samples. Current anthropology 33:343-370.
endix B
t al. Responses to Reviewer Comments
nk the reviewers for their careful attention to our manuscript and the valuable feedback they
ed. We have attempted to address each comment, and we provide a summary of our effort below
ference to line numbers where changes have been made in the manuscript.
wer 1: “The choice of the term ‘relatively standard population profile’ is accurate but inadequate.
add a few more lines that lets the readers know that you are aware of 1) the methodological
on determining adult age-at-death distributions in archaeological samples and 2) the issues
nding the use of model life tables in bioarchaeology/paleodemography.”
rs response: We have added lines 177-182 with relevant citations, which acknowledge the
dological issues associated with inferring demographic profiles in the systemic context from
ological burial assemblages as well as the relationship of those concerns to our study.
wer 2: “I also consider that some of the arguments and data presented by the authors warrant
discussion.”
rs response: The reviewer raises a number of good points about potentially confounding factors
interpretations. We address each of them below. More generally, we have expanded our
ction and discussion sections to highlight the strength that our study gains by considering
le independent lines of evidence, thus reducing concerns of equifinality associated with any one
evidence. Please see lines 68-76 and 217-231.
wer 2: “...an important aspect that should be further discussed is how d 18 O values were
d by climate change given that d 18 O values varied over time.”
rs response: We have acknowledged this possibility in lines 88-91 and 104. Fortunately,
limatic studies in the south-central Andes show that modern d18O are roughly equivalent to
at 7ka—the time period of interest to this study. Thus, climate change as a confounding factor is
oncern in this instance.
wer 2: “Another important aspect that authors should discuss in greater detail is the potential role
enetic contamination in masking a local signature.... Trace element concentrations are often
yed to evaluate the potential effect of diagenetic contamination so if these data are available (and
t absence of diagenetic contamination), it would be ideal.... I recommend the authors provide the
, nitrogen and C:N ratios of the collagen fractions of individuals 9 and 16 mentioned in the
mentary materials. A comparison of Table 1 and Figure 3, suggests that the d 13 C values of the
and collagen fractions of these individuals were significantly different, something that may be
ted to fractionation processes, should be further discussed.”
rs response: Diagenetic alteration is a common issue when performing stable isotopic analysis
haeological or fossil remains. One means of assessing the compositional integrity of bone, as
wer #2 mentioned, is through analysis of the organic fraction. Well-preserved bone collagen can
ntified by the mass fractions of carbon (>35 wt%) and nitrogen (11-16wt%) and carbon:nitrogen
C:N = 2.9 to 3.6) in the collagen. As the organic matrix of bone tends to protect bioapatite
lites, finding well-preserved collagen in bone samples is a good indication that the structural
ate in the bioapatite is preserved as well.
Along with structural carbonate from bone samples, we analyzed the carbon and nitrogen
c composition of collagen from two of the specimens in our dataset. Collagen yield was
nt, mass fraction of carbon and nitrogen was within levels of fresh bone (~44 wt%C and
%N), and C:N (3.2 and 3.3) was well within the excepted range for modern bone (2.9 to 3.6).
Bone collagen d13C values for these two specimens were -18.6‰ and -18.3‰ and, when
red with their respective structural carbonate d13C values, yielded d13C values (d13C = d13Ccarbonate
collagen) of 6-7‰—differences that are consistent with omnivorous to more plant-based diets.
mportantly, converting collagen d13C values to diet values using a standard 5‰ discrimination
produced d13C values within the range expected for plant matter from high elevation sites.
The excellent preservation of bone collagen in our samples supports preservation of the stable
c composition of the structural carbonate. Though we acknowledge additional information (e.g.,
lements) would help further constrain this, we view our results as sufficient to allow us to
et these isotopic values within the context of the original environmental setting. We have added
ss fraction values, C:N ratios, and associated references and discussed the results in lines 91-96,
7, and 141-144.
wer 2: “A second issue is related to controlling the effects of climate and environmental change
local and regional vegetation’s isotopic composition... I would caution using these values if they
ent the d 13 C from the radiocarbon dates, which usually derive from fractionation processes not
with an environmental signal.”
rs response: Spatial and temporal variation in the carbon isotopic composition of vegetation,
cally diet sources, is a valid concern in paleodietary studies. We addressed both aspects by
orating d13C values for charcoal from the Soro Mik’aya Patjxa in our comparative dataset as
enting the expected range in d13C values for vegetation at this location in the early Holocene.
arcoal, thus, provided a reference point for vegetation from this time and location that could be
red with reference values for modern plants at low and high elevations.
One thing we neglected to correct in our first submission was fractionation that occurs during
g. The carbon isotopic composition of wood burned at temperatures >200°C will become more
ed in 13C, causing d13C values for charcoal to be lower than those for the original wood by ~1‰
y et al., 2006, Geochimica et Cosmoschimica Acta). After correcting our charcoal data for this
nal fractionation, we find that the match between charcoal d13C values and diet d13C values
ed from our bone samples is significantly improved; they now perfectly overlap across the same
Furthermore, plant d13C values determined from the charcoal are more strongly skewed towards
values for higher elevation and away from values for lower elevation plants.
As for skewing that may be introduced by selective sampling of vegetation by consumers on a
ape, we point out that large consumers, like humans and camelids, tend to sample vegetation and
resources over a relatively large area, which dampens local variation (Bump et al., 2007, Proc.
Soc. B). Furthermore, our focus on bone collagen and structural carbonate instead of accreted
ical materials, like hair or teeth, means that the diet values we are calculating represent a multi-
verage for these individuals. In light of this, concerns regarding specific sampling of single
s or small patches of vegetation are minimized as these effects will be mitigated by time and
g area. We do acknowledge that it would be interesting to revisit this question using other
als that record a shorter window of time – growth layers in teeth, hair or nails – to assess this
in more detail.
We have clarified these details with edits to lines 109-144. The carbonization correction factor
y resulted in a closer agreement between the charred plant remains and the human remains, and
e thus added appropriate statistical tests to show the agreement.
wer 2: “Perhaps it would be helpful here to illustrate the existence of other contemporary sites...”
rs response: We have discussed other contemporary sites and the relevance of their geographic
ns in lines 240-249.
wer 2: “Regarding the fourth hypothesis, the demographic composition of the site... fails to
er the osteological paradox.... [and] it is very difficult to warrant the time-averaging of this
for either this or the other hypotheses.”
wers response: We have acknowledged these potential factors in 177-182. See also response to
wer 1 comment above.
wer 2: “Although the authors report...that most of these lithic raw materials were available in the
iver valley, ...it is also certainly possible that some of these materials were collected in lower
ons.”
rs response: We agree that this is a remote possibility. We have mentioned it in lines 197-201.
wer 2: “Although it is certainly possible that the site of Soro Mik’aya Patjxa consists of a year-
occupation, I am not sure if this would warrant that the altiplano was permanently settled.”
rs response: We have changed the title to indicate permanent use of the highlands as opposed to
iplano. We also emphasize that we are not suggesting permanent use of the site but permanent
the highlands. Lines 52-54 and 63-64 were edited for clarification.
Society Open
