Enhanced antimicrobial peptide-induced activity in the
mollusc Toll-2 family through evolution via tandem
Toll/interleukin-1 receptor
Jun Cao, Yihong Chen, Min Jin and Qian Ren
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160123.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160123
Review timeline
Original submission: 22 February 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 10 May 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 12 May 2016 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160123.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Ksenia Krasileva)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I could not find any supplemental files although Supplementary Data 1 is cited in the text.
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The study reports analyses of Toll family proteins in transcriptomes of 29 mollusk species. The
strongest part of the paper is experimental analysis showing that double TIRs have stronger and
additive effect on the reporter gene expression. While bioinformatics analyses are promising, they
could be improved as well as summarised better.
Please, see following suggestions:
1) It is unclear from the paper how are the sequenced species related to each other? Please,
include a basic phylogeny of these species based on housekeeping genes. It would also be a good
platform to use for showing which Toll confirmations each species has.
2) Description of species is cited as Supplemental Data 1 but I could not see any Supplemental
files in the system.
3) Since all analyses are done on de novo transcriptome assemblies, how can you tell if the genes
are assembled correctly? If there are no cases of two or more genes collapsed to be represented by
one transcript, which is a well-documented artefact of Trinity? Since the analyses are based only
on 83 genes, and a subgroup of them has been confirmed by RACE, I would advice to confirm the
rest of the genes by PCR of the full-length cDNA.
4) All presented phylogenetic analyses are done on full-length sequences. Since there is evidence
of recombination, different parts of the protein would have different evolutionary histories. It
would be informative to see phylogeny based on the TIR alone. For this, you can align sequences
on TIR only using programs such as hmmalign and trim them to the domain, then include second
TIR as well. Also, it would be best to use a mammalian TLR as an outgroup.
5) While reporter test results look great, only 2 genes are tested (one with 1 TIR and 1 with 2
TIRs). However, the title makes the generalisation for the whole TIR family. I am not an expert on
the assay so I do not know how easy it is to perform it, but if possible I would advise to test a few
more cases of 1 vs. 2 TIR proteins.
Minor comments:
Page 4 line 66 – typo in “PAMP”
Page 5 line 1 – define BCR
Page 5 line 9 – define COX2
3
Throughout the text, please put species names in italic.
With very best wishes,
Dr Ksenia Krasileva
Group Leader
The Genome Analysis Centre
The Sainsbury Laboratory
Colney Lane, Norwich, NR4 7UH, UK
Ksenia.Krasileva@tgac.ac.uk
@kseniakrasileva
www.tgac.ac.uk/science-faculty/triticeae-genomics
www.tsl.ac.uk/groups/krasileva-group
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160123)
27-Apr-2016
Dear Dr Ren,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Enhanced antimicrobial peptide-induced activity in the
mollusk Toll-2 family through evolution via tandem TIR") has now received comments from
reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject
Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor).
Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 20-May-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
4
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160123
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
5
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The study reports analyses of Toll family proteins in transcriptomes of 29 mollusk species. The
strongest part of the paper is experimental analysis showing that double TIRs have stronger and
additive effect on the reporter gene expression. While bioinformatics analyses are promising, they
could be improved as well as summarised better.
Please, see following suggestions:
1) It is unclear from the paper how are the sequenced species related to each other? Please,
include a basic phylogeny of these species based on housekeeping genes. It would also be a good
platform to use for showing which Toll confirmations each species has.
2) Description of species is cited as Supplemental Data 1 but I could not see any Supplemental
files in the system.
3) Since all analyses are done on de novo transcriptome assemblies, how can you tell if the genes
are assembled correctly? If there are no cases of two or more genes collapsed to be represented by
one transcript, which is a well-documented artefact of Trinity? Since the analyses are based only
on 83 genes, and a subgroup of them has been confirmed by RACE, I would advice to confirm the
rest of the genes by PCR of the full-length cDNA.
4) All presented phylogenetic analyses are done on full-length sequences. Since there is evidence
of recombination, different parts of the protein would have different evolutionary histories. It
would be informative to see phylogeny based on the TIR alone. For this, you can align sequences
on TIR only using programs such as hmmalign and trim them to the domain, then include second
TIR as well. Also, it would be best to use a mammalian TLR as an outgroup.
5) While reporter test results look great, only 2 genes are tested (one with 1 TIR and 1 with 2
TIRs). However, the title makes the generalisation for the whole TIR family. I am not an expert on
the assay so I do not know how easy it is to perform it, but if possible I would advise to test a few
more cases of 1 vs. 2 TIR proteins.
Minor comments:
Page 4 line 66 – typo in “PAMP”
Page 5 line 1 – define BCR
6
Page 5 line 9 – define COX2
Throughout the text, please put species names in italic.
With very best wishes,
Dr Ksenia Krasileva
Group Leader
The Genome Analysis Centre
The Sainsbury Laboratory
Colney Lane, Norwich, NR4 7UH, UK
Ksenia.Krasileva@tgac.ac.uk
@kseniakrasileva
www.tgac.ac.uk/science-faculty/triticeae-genomics
www.tsl.ac.uk/groups/krasileva-group
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160123)
Dear editor,
We would like to resubmit our manuscript titled: Enhanced antimicrobial peptide-induced
activity in the mollusk Toll-2 family through evolution via tandem TIR to RSOS. All the authors
agree to the submission.
We have revised our MS according to the review comments word by word. The English was
improved again by a company. I hope the revised MS reach the requirement of RSOS. Thank you.
Best wishes
Yours sincerely
Qianren
See Appendix A.
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The study reports analyses of Toll family proteins in transcriptomes of 29 mollusk
species. The strongest part of the paper is experimental analysis showing that double
TIRs have stronger and additive effect on the reporter gene expression. While
bioinformatics analyses are promising, they could be improved as well as summarised
better.
Thank you for your positive comments and we have revised our MS according to your
suggestions as follows.
Please, see following suggestions:
1) It is unclear from the paper how are the sequenced species related to each other?
Please, include a basic phylogeny of these species based on housekeeping genes. It
would also be a good platform to use for showing which Toll confirmations each
species has.
Thank you for your excellent suggestions and we have added a basic phylogeny of
these species and the data could be seen in supplementary files.
2) Description of species is cited as Supplemental Data 1 but I could not see any
Supplemental files in the system.
Thank you for your reminding me of the supplementary data. I am sorry for the
mistakes and we have uploaded the supplemental data in the revised MS.
3) Since all analyses are done on de novo transcriptome assemblies, how can you tell
if the genes are assembled correctly? If there are no cases of two or more genes
collapsed to be represented by one transcript, which is a well-documented artefact of
Trinity? Since the analyses are based only on 83 genes, and a subgroup of them has
been confirmed by RACE, I would advice to confirm the rest of the genes by PCR of
the full-length cDNA.
Thank you for your suggestions and we have selected some tolls to amplify the full
length cDNA and the sequences were nearly as same as that obtained by de novo
transcriptome assemblies.
4) All presented phylogenetic analyses are done on full-length sequences. Since there
is evidence of recombination, different parts of the protein would have different
evolutionary histories. It would be informative to see phylogeny based on the TIR
alone. For this, you can align sequences on TIR only using programs such as
hmmalign and trim them to the domain, then include second TIR as well. Also, it
would be best to use a mammalian TLR as an outgroup.
Thank you for your excellent suggestions and we have reconstructed the phlogeny
tree based on the TIR2 sequence. The results was similar with the tree constructed
using the full length sequences of Tolls.
5) While reporter test results look great, only 2 genes are tested (one with 1 TIR and 1
with 2 TIRs). However, the title makes the generalisation for the whole TIR family. I
am not an expert on the assay so I do not know how easy it is to perform it, but if
possible I would advise to test a few more cases of 1 vs. 2 TIR proteins.
Thank you for your excellent suggestions and we only selected the Toll genes in
TIRs Toll. The assay was not easily to perform because the Toll was long in length
and was not easily to ligated into the pAC 5.1 B vector. In addition, only Hyriopsis
cumingii was the main object of study in our lab. Thank you for your understanding.
Minor comments:
Page 4 line 66 – typo in “PAMP”
Thank you and we have checked it.
Page 5 line 1 – define BCR
Thank you and we have defined it. BCR is the abbreviation of antigen-specific B
cell receptor.
Page 5 line 9 – define COX2
Thank you and we have defined it.
Throughout the text, please put species names in italic.
Thank you and we have checked the species names and make it in italic.
With very best wishes
Society Open
