Experiments on torrefied wood pellet: study by gasification
and characterization for waste biomass to energy
applications
Andrew N. Rollinson and Orla Williams
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150578.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150578
Review timeline
Original submission: 27 October 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 25 April 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 26 April 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150578.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Dr Xiaomian Baxter)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
2. Introduction
First paragraph: I think the intention to utilise virgin biomass and waste biomass is different.
Large scale woodland biomass utilisation could be sustainable for the reasons you’ve already
stated in the first sentence. The intention for waste biomass utilisation is to achieve landfill
diversion and hence to reduce Green House Gas emissions. Biomass waste (the same as MSW) is
directed by and follows waste hierarchy: prevent, re-use, recycle, energy recover and landfill.
Second paragraph: It may be worth highlighting the advantages of gasification when compared
to traditional combustion technology: potentially improved plant efficiency and/or reduced
pollutants, etc.
Generally the report is good. Gasification and Torrefaction are two very interesting technologies.
Future research topics could consider whole supply and the power generation chain. If you are
focusing on waste wood which will contains metals and other contaminants.
Questions I have are:
• What is the size you are looking to grind this waste and also your procedures to separate
metals?
• Separating, grinding and torrefaction require energy. What’s the trade off?
• What is the overall efficiency?
• Advantages of combining these two technologies when compared to traditional grate
combustion. That’s something will gain the interest from industry for potential commercial
development.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Ian Watson)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
It is mentioned that the data is uploaded to Dryad, will a further link be provided on publication?
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper reflects an important area of research on gasification and biomass pretreatment. It is
well written. The methodolgy is adequately explained and the number of replicates is
mentioned. However, I was not clear on how these data/errors are presented in the graphs, i.e.
there are no error bars. A brief statement of the errors is needed.
Minor points:
Please replace ml with mL.
I was surprised to see that there are no published works on torrified biomass for downdraft
gasifiers!
In section 3.2, 3rd line, Figure 1 should be Figure 2.
Please specify the gasifier throat diameter?
Section 4.1.2, first line ...well explored. A reference would be beneficial here.
Same paragraph, line 8 accept edit.
Last line of the same paragraph, affects should be affect or delete would
In the conclusions, point 8, last line. There is still a strong case for continuing research in... It
would be useful to substantiate this.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (Peter Ping Liu)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
We have been conducting similar experiments. Our experience is very comparable to what you
have found.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150578)
20-Apr-2016
Dear Dr Rollinson
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-150578 entitled
"Experiments on torrefied wood pellet – Study by gasification and characterisation for waste
biomass to energy applications" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150578
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
5
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 29-Apr-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kerry Rowe
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Associate Editor Comments to Author ( Professor Ian Moore):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
The three expert reviewers are positive, so I recommend acceptance subject to minor revisions to
address the suggestions of the first & third reviewers.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
2. Introduction
First paragraph: I think the intention to utilise virgin biomass and waste biomass is different.
Large scale woodland biomass utilisation could be sustainable for the reasons you’ve already
stated in the first sentence. The intention for waste biomass utilisation is to achieve landfill
diversion and hence to reduce Green House Gas emissions. Biomass waste (the same as MSW) is
directed by and follows waste hierarchy: prevent, re-use, recycle, energy recover and landfill.
Second paragraph: It may be worth highlighting the advantages of gasification when compared
to traditional combustion technology: potentially improved plant efficiency and/or reduced
pollutants, etc.
Generally the report is good. Gasification and Torrefaction are two very interesting technologies.
Future research topics could consider whole supply and the power generation chain. If you are
focusing on waste wood which will contains metals and other contaminants.
Questions I have are:
• What is the size you are looking to grind this waste and also your procedures to separate
metals?
• Separating, grinding and torrefaction require energy. What’s the trade off?
• What is the overall efficiency?
• Advantages of combining these two technologies when compared to traditional grate
combustion. That’s something will gain the interest from industry for potential commercial
development.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
We have been conducting similar experiments. Our experience is very comparable to what you
have found.
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper reflects an important area of research on gasification and biomass pretreatment. It is
well written. The methodolgy is adequately explained and the number of replicates is
mentioned. However, I was not clear on how these data/errors are presented in the graphs, i.e.
there are no error bars. A brief statement of the errors is needed.
Minor points:
Please replace ml with mL.
I was surprised to see that there are no published works on torrified biomass for downdraft
gasifiers!
In section 3.2, 3rd line, Figure 1 should be Figure 2.
7
Please specify the gasifier throat diameter?
Section 4.1.2, first line ...well explored. A reference would be beneficial here.
Same paragraph, line 8 accept edit.
Last line of the same paragraph, affects should be affect or delete would
In the conclusions, point 8, last line. There is still a strong case for continuing research in... It
would be useful to substantiate this.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150578)
See Appendix A.
April-2016
Reviewer comments are listed below in sequential order, with responses in red
. Red ink is also used in the revised manuscript to identify changes.
Response to Reviewer 1 Comments
“First paragraph…etc”
To strengthen the distinction between waste biomass and “virgin” bio-energy
ps, the following has been added to the Introduction, paragraph 1:
“…locally sourced waste (such as low or negative value forestry residue)…”
sentence to which this has been added is immediately followed by the
inition of virgin bio-energy crops.
To identify the intent behind the waste biomass utilisation hierarchy, the
lowing has also been added to the Introduction, paragraph 1:
“Utilisation of locally-sourced bio-waste for energy however - currently part
a directive to avoid landfill - ...”.
“Second paragraph…etc”
The following information, with references, has been added:
“Gasifiers provide energy on demand so battery storage is unnecessary; and
re is no working fluid, so the systems offer improved efficiencies compared
traditional combustion/steam turbine generators [7]. Furthermore, NOx and
ticulate emissions are reportedly lower from gasifier engines, likely due to
way that the engine is adjusted to cater for this type of fuel [12, 13]. The
elihood of dioxin production in a gasifier is less well defined, but recent
ts found that 30 to 60% of the biomass chlorine content remained in the char,
that dioxin precursor formation was inhibited by the restricted O2 levels
erent within the process [14].”
“Questions I have are:”
• What is the size you are looking to grind this waste and also your
cedures to separate metals?
The standard industry size for comminuted biomass for power generation in a
verised fuel boiler is 1mm. A statement has been added to paragraph 5 on page
hich clarifies this:
“For biomass to be used in a pulverised fuel burner, the standard mill
ssifier setting is 1 mm [29, 30]”.
According to British Standard 17225-1:2014 for solid biofuel specifications,
erials which are used for biofuel processes cannot contain heavy metals or
ogenated organic compounds. Thus in practice the materials which are used in
mass pellets or thermally treated pellets for bioenergy are sourced from
te wood making industries such as saw dust or agricultural wastes such as
ve oil solid waste residues which should not contain metal. Thus separation
hods for metals are not generally required as part of the biofuel pellet
duction. The following statement has been added to paragraph 3 on page 2 to
rify this:
“For bio-wastes to be used as biofuels, they cannot contain heavy metals or
ogenated organic compounds [24], and the same requirements are necessary for
rmally treated materials.”
•Separating, grinding and torrefaction require energy. What’s the trade off?
•What is the overall efficiency?
Torrefaction has been found to have an energy penalty in the thermal
atment part of the process, but the improved bulk handling, transport and end
means that overall there is only a small energy impact, and financially
refied biomass are more attractive than conventional wood pellets. The
lowing section has been added to paragraph 1 on page 3 to highlight this:
heat and conversion loss of electricity to thermal energy at around 42%
], and torrefied biomass retains 75-95% of its original energy content [47].
m a techno-economic perspective, torrefied pellets offer cost savings over
d pellets as a coal replacement fuel. Despite slightly higher production
ts, torrefied pellets have a cost price of 9.8 USD/GJ for torrefied pellets
pared to 12.8 USD/GJ for wood pellets, and are one of the most cost effective
ions for CO2 mitigation [48].”
•Advantages of combining these two technologies when compared to traditional
te combustion.
This has already been partly addressed with the response to comments on the
ond paragraph, and to the provision of further information on overall
iciency (as above). In addition, the following text has been added to the
al paragraph of Section 4.2.2:
“This, along with the likely lower NOx/dioxin emissions, overall efficiency
financial gains, and greater CO2 mitigation potential, makes the combined
hnologies in many ways far more attractive for future commercial development
n traditional grate combustion”.
ponse to Reviewer 3 Comments
“…However I was not clear on how these data/errors are presented in graphs,
. there are no error bars. A brief statement of the errors is needed.
There are four graphs within the manuscript:
Figure 3: Although Reviewer 1 states “graphs, i.e. error bars”, we suspect
s should not apply to the TGA plot (this Figure). It would be most unorthodox
assign error to these plots, indeed we have never seen this done in any
lication. Moreover, assigning error to this graph would be superfluous as the
a is a precursor to the Arrhenius plot/calculations (the conventional way of
orting error for this type of research). Thus the final accuracy of these
ults can be assessed by the reader with the R2 values in Figure 4.
Figure 4: R2 values were calculated for each linear plot: Corsican Pine =
5, European Larch = 0.96, Silver Birch = 0.96, Torrefied pellet = 0.95. The
lowing statement has now been appended to Figure 4’s caption: “All plots 0.95
2 = 0.96.” Note that the R2 values to these (and Figure 5) graphs are within
raw data files attached as Supporting Material.
Figure 5: These plots represent the mean averages of three replicates. Peak
ting (sixth order polynomial) was applied to identify Xmax. From this a value
propagated error has been assigned to the ultimate values of <U+03A8> as ± 0.1. The
lowing explanation has been added to the Figure caption: “Peak fitting at R2
.99 was used to identify Xmax. <U+03A8> correct to ± 0.1.”
Figure 6: The gas analyser was calibrated with high purity bottled gases
or to each experiment. It had an accuracy (full scale) and repeatability
cision value of = 2%. The two reduction zone temperature measurements were
orded by K-type thermocouples (as stated in the text). Rather than reporting
sensitivity/response time or accuracy of these familiar devices, we have
tead reported the standard deviation of temperature for each thermocouple
ing the two hour sampling period which we feel gives a better illustration of
reactor stability (which directly influences gas composition). Therefore,
following information has now been added to the caption of Figure 6:
mperature standard deviation about the two hour mean = 19°C (Top) and 22°C
ttom). Gas analyses accuracy = ± 2% full scale), = 2 repeatability.”
Minor points:
“Replace ml with mL.” All (eleven) replaced as requested.
“I was surprised to see that there are no published works on torrefied
mass for downdraft gasifiers!” Indeed. Hence this research.
“In section 3.2, 3rd line, Figure 1 should be Figure 2.” Changed as requested.
first paragraph, section 3.2: ”(3” throat diameter)”.
“Section 4.1.2, first line...well explored. A reference would be beneficial
e.” Reference [19] added here.
“Same paragraph, line 8 accept edit.” Edit accepted.
“Last line of the same paragraph, affects should be affect or delete would in
conclusions, point 8, last line. There is still a strong case for continuing
earch in... It would be useful to substantiate this.
“Affects” has been changed to “affect”.
We are unable to understand the following aspect of this comment: “...or
ete would in the conclusions, point 8, last line”. There is no word “would”
Point 8 of the Conclusions. After checking all other uses of the word “would”
this manuscript we can find none amiss. We are happy to oblige here if some
rification can be provided.
With regard to “There is still a strong case....It would be useful to
stantiate this”, substantiation was already provided by the first sentence in
s bullet point, namely that torrefied pellets are high energy density,
rcome bridging and channelling issues, and are resistant to steamed
integration/hygroscopicity. What was wrong here was the syntax of this
agraph, as the link between (first sentence) substantiation and the (last
tence) statement that continuing research is justified, was broken by a
arating sentence. To rectify this, we have moved this middle sentence to the
of the paragraph. We have also added the word “Consequently…” so now this
ordering leads the reader directly from the beneficial findings onto why...
nsequently, there is still a strong case for continuing research in torrefied
let as a gasifier fuel”.
Society Open
