Dog growls express various contextual and affective
content for human listeners
T. Faragó, N. Takács, Á. Miklósi and P. Pongrácz
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170134.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170134
Review timeline
Original submission: 12 February 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 10 April 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 11 April 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170134.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Anna Taylor)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a clear and well-written article that significantly builds on a previous study in this field,
using more precise methodologies to tease out some of the more interesting effects and
observations. The experimental design is thoughtful and appropriate. In particular, the use of a
sliding scale to rate emotion and giving participants longer stimuli plus the ability the repeat
stimuli is a considerable change from previous work, making this a new and relevant study
rather than a replication.
While many of the results do confirm previous findings, the design permits significant extension
beyond those earlier results and enables this paper to draw clearer conclusions. As such, I have
no reservations in recommending this article for publication.
The one minor concern I would like to express is that the participant sample includes 14 males
and 26 females, yet gender is includes as a factor in the GLMM and conclusions about the effect
of gender are drawn. I would like to see a more balanced sample, appropriate to the quality of the
study.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Farago et al. present an interesting study on dog-human communication, showing that human
listeners can pick up on the contextual and affective content of dog growls. Humans attributed
adequate emotions to natural growl bouts according to their social context (threatening person,
food guarding, play) and also associated the correct contexts with the growls above chance.
Within the threatening and play contexts, ratings could be correlated to call parameters (i.e.
shorter, slower pulsing growls were rated more playful and happy), which leads the authors to
speculate that dogs may manipulatively communicate their size and motivation in these contexts.
3
Overall, the paper is well written. The line of argumentation is clear and the methods are
described in sufficient detail. The empirical work seems to be carefully conducted and the
playback stimuli well controlled. The results are interesting and discussed thoroughly and
balanced. The findings add nicely to our understanding of human-dog interaction and animal
communication in general.
Accordingly, I have only minor comments:
p.4, lines 3-5: The way the stats are cited here is difficult to grasp; initially, I had problems to
understand which of the two statistical values goes to which result.
p. 4, line 13: specify what you mean with ‘three negative inner states’, e.g. simply add the words
‘mentioned above’
p. 4, line 49: ‘but the TG and FG growls were rather easy to recognize correctly’ – I assume you
mean were rather difficult to recognize correctly
Figure 2: Please either state the colour code (red = TS; blue = PL) in the legend or put it in every
panel of the figure.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170134)
29-Mar-2017
Dear Dr Faragó
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170134 entitled
"Dog growls express various contextual and affective content for human listeners" has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170134
4
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 07-Apr-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
5
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
Please would you attend to the minor revisions asked for by the Reviewers?
In addition, I have noted below some suggestions to strengthen the manuscript.
Instead of acronyms (which make it harder for readers), use either the full names, or use short
names, after introducing the full names. This is also true for tables. Some of the tables in the
Supplementary lack descriptive titles and explanatory notes. Table S2 has no title or note.
It is more common to write 'participants' than subjects. Check with other RSOS manuscripts to
see if there is a preferred house style?
Could the measures of consistency be made clearer?
There should be a table of descriptive statistics as the first result, so that readers can see the
distribution of key measures and sample characteristics.
Some English-language improvements would be helpful. For example:
"their success rate was also affected by their gender" This shortens to (and is more precise
because the direction is given) 'women scored higher' (were more accurate or whatever is
suitable). This is just an example, but a careful reading would yield many minor improvements.
6
In some places the word adequate is used incorrectly.
" Listeners attributed adequate emotions to growls" I am unsure what the intended meaning is
here, but it is certainly not the one that has been written.
A read-through by a native English speaker may be useful.
One Reviewer asks for more male participants. I do not see how this could easily be achieved
within the present study, but it is a good point to consider when designing a study.
Have the authors conducted any power analyses? It would be useful for readers to know, for
each statistical test, what power is offered by the sample.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a clear and well-written article that significantly builds on a previous study in this field,
using more precise methodologies to tease out some of the more interesting effects and
observations. The experimental design is thoughtful and appropriate. In particular, the use of a
sliding scale to rate emotion and giving participants longer stimuli plus the ability the repeat
stimuli is a considerable change from previous work, making this a new and relevant study
rather than a replication.
While many of the results do confirm previous findings, the design permits significant extension
beyond those earlier results and enables this paper to draw clearer conclusions. As such, I have
no reservations in recommending this article for publication.
The one minor concern I would like to express is that the participant sample includes 14 males
and 26 females, yet gender is includes as a factor in the GLMM and conclusions about the effect
of gender are drawn. I would like to see a more balanced sample, appropriate to the quality of the
study.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Farago et al. present an interesting study on dog-human communication, showing that human
listeners can pick up on the contextual and affective content of dog growls. Humans attributed
adequate emotions to natural growl bouts according to their social context (threatening person,
food guarding, play) and also associated the correct contexts with the growls above chance.
Within the threatening and play contexts, ratings could be correlated to call parameters (i.e.
shorter, slower pulsing growls were rated more playful and happy), which leads the authors to
speculate that dogs may manipulatively communicate their size and motivation in these contexts.
Overall, the paper is well written. The line of argumentation is clear and the methods are
described in sufficient detail. The empirical work seems to be carefully conducted and the
playback stimuli well controlled. The results are interesting and discussed thoroughly and
balanced. The findings add nicely to our understanding of human-dog interaction and animal
communication in general.
Accordingly, I have only minor comments:
7
p.4, lines 3-5: The way the stats are cited here is difficult to grasp; initially, I had problems to
understand which of the two statistical values goes to which result.
p. 4, line 13: specify what you mean with ‘three negative inner states’, e.g. simply add the words
‘mentioned above’
p. 4, line 49: ‘but the TG and FG growls were rather easy to recognize correctly’ – I assume you
mean were rather difficult to recognize correctly
Figure 2: Please either state the colour code (red = TS; blue = PL) in the legend or put it in every
panel of the figure.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170134)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170134.R1)
11-Apr-2017
Dear Dr Faragó,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Dog growls express various contextual
and affective content for human listeners" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
highlighted version of the manuscript and the attached material in which the changes we made
can be followed.
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
We are thankful for the comments and the effort!
nstead of acronyms (which make it harder for readers), use either the full names, or use short names,
after introducing the full names. This is also true for tables.
We replaced the acronyms with short names through the main text and the supplementary
material. However we decided to keep the abbreviations of the acoustic parameters as these
are standard and widely used, thus we expect no difficulties understanding them for the
eaders.
Some of the tables in the Supplementary lack descriptive titles and explanatory notes. Table S2 has
no title or note.
We have added title and exploratory notes. We also realized that there was an error in
numbering of the supplementary tables, now the main text refer to the correct tables.
t is more common to write 'participants' than subjects. Check with other RSOS manuscripts to see if
here is a preferred house style?
We found no guidelines for this on the webpages of the RS, thus we changed subject to
participant in the text.
Could the measures of consistency be made clearer?
We tried to clarify the consistency measures in the Supplementary Results. We added a chi
square test to statistically compare the distribution of the context answers between the first
and second repetition.
There should be a table of descriptive statistics as the first result, so that readers can see the
distribution of key measures and sample characteristics.
We have added the average and standard deviations of the emotional scores to Supplementary
Table S4.
Some English-language improvements would be helpful. For example:
their success rate was also affected by their gender" This shortens to (and is more precise because
he direction is given) 'women scored higher' (were more accurate or whatever is suitable). This is just
an example, but a careful reading would yield many minor improvements.
We rephrased this sentence.
n some places the word adequate is used incorrectly.
Listeners attributed adequate emotions to growls" I am unsure what the intended meaning is here,
but it is certainly not the one that has been written.
We rephrased the sentences misusing ‘adequate’.
A read-through by a native English speaker may be useful.
A native speaker proofread and corrected the manuscript.
One Reviewer asks for more male participants. I do not see how this could easily be achieved within
We thank for the suggestion and try to obtain more balanced samples in the future.
Have the authors conducted any power analyses? It would be useful for readers to know, for each
statistical test, what power is offered by the sample.
We haven’t run power analysis prior to the study, and in case of significant findings we see no
point of retrospective power analysis (see an argument about this:
http://daniellakens.blogspot.hu/2014/12/observed-power-and-what-to-do-if-your.html), but to
provide insight for the offered power we now report the effect sizes from the pairwise estimate
contrasts in the post-hoc tests with the 95% confidence intervals (supplementary results).
Additionally in the case of one negative finding about the context effect on the fundamental
requency, we run a simulation test to assume the necessary sample size to reach 80% power
with the given effects using simr package in R (Green, P. and MacLeod, C. J. (2016), SIMR: an R
package for power analysis of generalized linear mixed models by simulation. Methods Ecol
Evol, 7: 493–498. doi:10.1111/2041-210X.12504). Based on this over 55 individuals per context
would be necessary to show any difference suggesting relatively low effect in this
measurement.
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a clear and well-written article that significantly builds on a previous study in this field, using
more precise methodologies to tease out some of the more interesting effects and observations. The
experimental design is thoughtful and appropriate. In particular, the use of a sliding scale to rate
emotion and giving participants longer stimuli plus the ability the repeat stimuli is a considerable
change from previous work, making this a new and relevant study rather than a replication.
While many of the results do confirm previous findings, the design permits significant extension
beyond those earlier results and enables this paper to draw clearer conclusions. As such, I have no
eservations in recommending this article for publication.
We are grateful for the Reviewer for the time and effort, and thankful for the positive feedback.
The one minor concern I would like to express is that the participant sample includes 14 males and 26
emales, yet gender is includes as a factor in the GLMM and conclusions about the effect of gender
are drawn. I would like to see a more balanced sample, appropriate to the quality of the study.
Thank You for the comment. We are aware that the sample is somewhat imbalanced, but as the
generalized linear mixed models we used for the analysis are not very sensitive for such
mbalances, thus we are positive that the gender effect we found are not due to this sample
size difference. In such questionnaire studies female participation is always higher thus it is
hard to get more balanced sample. However, in the future we will try to put more effort in
obtaining even number of female and male participants.
Comments to the Author(s)
Farago et al. present an interesting study on dog-human communication, showing that human
isteners can pick up on the contextual and affective content of dog growls. Humans attributed
adequate emotions to natural growl bouts according to their social context (threatening person, food
guarding, play) and also associated the correct contexts with the growls above chance. Within the
hreatening and play contexts, ratings could be correlated to call parameters (i.e. shorter, slower
pulsing growls were rated more playful and happy), which leads the authors to speculate that dogs
may manipulatively communicate their size and motivation in these contexts.
Overall, the paper is well written. The line of argumentation is clear and the methods are described in
sufficient detail. The empirical work seems to be carefully conducted and the playback stimuli well
controlled. The results are interesting and discussed thoroughly and balanced. The findings add nicely
o our understanding of human-dog interaction and animal communication in general.
We are thankful for the positive feedback and the comments of the Reviewer!
Accordingly, I have only minor comments:
p.4, lines 3-5: The way the stats are cited here is difficult to grasp; initially, I had problems to
understand which of the two statistical values goes to which result.
We have clarified this.
p. 4, line 13: specify what you mean with ‘three negative inner states’, e.g. simply add the words
mentioned above’
We added a clarification “(aggressive, fearful and desperate)”
p. 4, line 49: ‘but the TG and FG growls were rather easy to recognize correctly’ – I assume you mean
were rather difficult to recognize correctly
Yes, this was a mistake, we meant just the opposite. Now corrected. Thank you for pointing
his out.
Figure 2: Please either state the colour code (red = TS; blue = PL) in the legend or put it in every panel
of the figure.
We added the text “Threatening Stranger context indicated in red, Play in blue.” in the figure
egend.
Society Open
