A modified ‘NanoSuit’ preserves wet samples in high
vacuum: direct observations on cells and tissues in field-
emission scanning electron microscopy
Yasuharu Takaku, Hiroshi Suzuki, Hideya Kawasaki, Isao Ohta, Daisuke Ishii, Satoshi
Hirakawa, Takami Tsutsui, Haruko Matsumoto, Sayuri Takehara, Chinatsu Nakane, Kana
Sakaida, Chiaki Suzuki, Yoshinori Muranaka, Hirotoshi Kikuchi, Hiroyuki Konno,
Masatsugu Shimomura and Takahiko Hariyama
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160887.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160887
Review timeline
Original submission: 8 November 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 February 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 2 February 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160887.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Charles David)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a very interesting paper. The authors describe a simple new method for rapidly imaging
cells and tissues by SEM. The results extend to cells and tissues a previously described method
for observing living organisms by SEM (Takaku et al, PNAS 2013).
The new method involves treatment of tissue or cells with a solution of glycerin and electrolytes
(SSE) to prevent desiccation and allow imaging in the SEM. An alternative but significantly more
complicated method using graphene sheets was recently published (Wojcik et al, Nat Com, 2015).
The paper is generally well written, but I think the authors should move two important results
from the Supplement to the main paper – specifically figures S2 and S4. These figures both show
images, which demonstrate the power of their method.
Fig S2 shows a direct comparison of the new SSE method with standard SEM on fixed,
dehydrated and metal-coated samples.
Fig S4 shows a good example of what the SSE method can achieve, namely simple rapid imaging
of normal and inflamed tissue.
I would suggest one further change. Add the image in Fig2A to the new Fig S2 in the main paper.
The image is a good overview of cultured cells with the new SSE method and matches the other
results in Fig S2. The remaining images in Fig 2 now all deal with the issue of the thickness of the
SSE layer measured by TEM.
Only minor changes are required in the main text, since Figures 2, S2 and S4 are all mentioned in
the text at the appropriate positions.
These changes will showcase the main result, namely that living and also fixed "wet" tissue can
be rapidly imaged by SEM, without time consuming and distorting effects of dehydration and
metal coating.
Supplement Fig S3. This result is barely mentioned in the main text (p9) and the experiment is
incompletely described in the figure legend. It could be deleted without detracting significantly
from the major conclusions in the paper.
Prof. Charles N. David
Dept. of Biology
Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich
Germany
3
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Elisha Moses)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper describes a coating methodology by which a biological or organic sample can be
dipped in a simple solution, which is then hardened either by plasma or electron treatment. This
coating is an improvement over previous versions that had been used by the authors for imaging
of live insects in the SEM. The hardened coating serves to preserve the sample within the vacuous
environment of the SEM, so that imaging may be done. The authors show evidence that imaging
of a dried sample leads to a distorted image in comparison with imaging of the coated sample. As
such, this is a good step forward using this interesting and promising technique.
Two competing issues must be considered regarding the imaging of ‘living’ versus ‘wet’ samples:
resolution and radiation damage. As shown by previous attempts to image live cells in the SEM
[1], radiation damage to the cells at high magnification causes eventual cell death. This is due to
electrons that can penetrate the sample to a depth of up to a micrometer, and which probably
lead to direct ionization and the production of radicals.
Indeed, the higher magnification image of Figure 3 shows clear changes in the topography of the
cell surface (assuming that the same area is being imaged!). This may be more consistent with
gradual cell death over a time scale of tens of minutes, rather than with endocytosis as suggested
by the authors.
Once the cell is in the process of dying, it is harder to know what is being imaged.
The authors would thus need to clarify whether indeed cells do survive imaging at large
magnifications. This may be done for example by assaying for cell death those cells that have
been directly imaged at large magnification. If cells survive this kind of radiation then it is
interesting and even surprising, and the mechanism by which such a thin layer can prevent the
energetic electrons from reaching and harming the cell should be explained.
[1] S. Thiberge et. al, PNAS 101, 3346, (2004).
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160887)
11-Jan-2017
Dear Professor Hariyama,
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160887 entitled
"A modified “NanoSuit®” preserves wet samples in high vacuum: direct observations on cells
and tissues in FE-SEM" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject
to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments
at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160887
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
5
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 20-Jan-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
6
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Dr. Katrin Rittinger
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.or
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Both reviewers are positive about the work. Reviewer 1 has mainly suggestions to alter figures
and presentations of the work while Reviewer 2 requests the authors to confirm whether the cells
are indeed still alive during and after imaging. This is an important point that the authors should
address. The manuscript can be accepted once the authors fully address both reviewers
comments and recommendations.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a very interesting paper. The authors describe a simple new method for rapidly imaging
cells and tissues by SEM. The results extend to cells and tissues a previously described method
for observing living organisms by SEM (Takaku et al, PNAS 2013).
The new method involves treatment of tissue or cells with a solution of glycerin and electrolytes
(SSE) to prevent desiccation and allow imaging in the SEM. An alternative but significantly more
complicated method using graphene sheets was recently published (Wojcik et al, Nat Com, 2015).
The paper is generally well written, but I think the authors should move two important results
from the Supplement to the main paper – specifically figures S2 and S4. These figures both show
images, which demonstrate the power of their method.
Fig S2 shows a direct comparison of the new SSE method with standard SEM on fixed,
dehydrated and metal-coated samples.
Fig S4 shows a good example of what the SSE method can achieve, namely simple rapid imaging
of normal and inflamed tissue.
I would suggest one further change. Add the image in Fig2A to the new Fig S2 in the main paper.
The image is a good overview of cultured cells with the new SSE method and matches the other
results in Fig S2. The remaining images in Fig 2 now all deal with the issue of the thickness of the
SSE layer measured by TEM.
Only minor changes are required in the main text, since Figures 2, S2 and S4 are all mentioned in
the text at the appropriate positions.
These changes will showcase the main result, namely that living and also fixed "wet" tissue can
be rapidly imaged by SEM, without time consuming and distorting effects of dehydration and
metal coating.
7
Supplement Fig S3. This result is barely mentioned in the main text (p9) and the experiment is
incompletely described in the figure legend. It could be deleted without detracting significantly
from the major conclusions in the paper.
Prof. Charles N. David
Dept. of Biology
Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich
Germany
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper describes a coating methodology by which a biological or organic sample can be
dipped in a simple solution, which is then hardened either by plasma or electron treatment. This
coating is an improvement over previous versions that had been used by the authors for imaging
of live insects in the SEM. The hardened coating serves to preserve the sample within the vacuous
environment of the SEM, so that imaging may be done. The authors show evidence that imaging
of a dried sample leads to a distorted image in comparison with imaging of the coated sample. As
such, this is a good step forward using this interesting and promising technique.
Two competing issues must be considered regarding the imaging of ‘living’ versus ‘wet’ samples:
resolution and radiation damage. As shown by previous attempts to image live cells in the SEM
[1], radiation damage to the cells at high magnification causes eventual cell death. This is due to
electrons that can penetrate the sample to a depth of up to a micrometer, and which probably
lead to direct ionization and the production of radicals.
Indeed, the higher magnification image of Figure 3 shows clear changes in the topography of the
cell surface (assuming that the same area is being imaged!). This may be more consistent with
gradual cell death over a time scale of tens of minutes, rather than with endocytosis as suggested
by the authors.
Once the cell is in the process of dying, it is harder to know what is being imaged.
The authors would thus need to clarify whether indeed cells do survive imaging at large
magnifications. This may be done for example by assaying for cell death those cells that have
been directly imaged at large magnification. If cells survive this kind of radiation then it is
interesting and even surprising, and the mechanism by which such a thin layer can prevent the
energetic electrons from reaching and harming the cell should be explained.
[1] S. Thiberge et. al, PNAS 101, 3346, (2004).
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160887)
See Appendix A.
8
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160887.R1)
02-Feb-2017
Dear Professor Hariyama,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "A modified
“NanoSuit®” preserves wet samples in high vacuum: direct observations on cells and tissues in
FE-SEM" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Point-by-point reply:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a very interesting paper. The authors describe a simple new method for
rapidly imaging cells and tissues by SEM. The results extend to cells and tissues
a previously described method for observing living organisms by SEM (Takaku
et al, PNAS 2013).
The new method involves treatment of tissue or cells with a solution of glycerin
and electrolytes (SSE) to prevent desiccation and allow imaging in the SEM. An
alternative but significantly more complicated method using graphene sheets
was recently published (Wojcik et al, Nat Com, 2015).
The paper is generally well written, but I think the authors should move two
important results from the Supplement to the main paper – specifically figures S2
and S4. These figures both show images, which demonstrate the power of their
method.
Fig S2 shows a direct comparison of the new SSE method with standard SEM
on fixed, dehydrated and metal-coated samples.
Fig S4 shows a good example of what the SSE method can achieve, namely
simple rapid imaging of normal and inflamed tissue.
I would suggest one further change. Add the image in Fig2A to the new Fig S2 in
the main paper. The image is a good overview of cultured cells with the new
SSE method and matches the other results in Fig S2. The remaining images in
Fig 2 now all deal with the issue of the thickness of the SSE layer measured by
TEM.
Only minor changes are required in the main text, since Figures 2, S2 and S4
are all mentioned in the text at the appropriate positions.
These changes will showcase the main result, namely that living and also fixed
"wet" tissue can be rapidly imaged by SEM, without time consuming and
distorting effects of dehydration and metal coating.
Supplement Fig S3. This result is barely mentioned in the main text (p9) and the
experiment is incompletely described in the figure legend. It could be deleted
without detracting significantly from the major conclusions in the paper.
We have progressed the manuscript according to the suggestions of Reviewer:
1. We have moved figures S2 and S4 to the main paper (as figures 2 and 4,
respectively) and added the image in Fig 2A to the new Fig S2 in the main paper.
Supplement Fig S3 has been deleted.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper describes a coating methodology by which a biological or organic
sample can be dipped in a simple solution, which is then hardened either by
plasma or electron treatment. This coating is an improvement over previous
versions that had been used by the authors for imaging of live insects in the
SEM. The hardened coating serves to preserve the sample within the vacuous
environment of the SEM, so that imaging may be done. The authors show
evidence that imaging of a dried sample leads to a distorted image in
comparison with imaging of the coated sample. As such, this is a good step
forward using this interesting and promising technique.
Two competing issues must be considered regarding the imaging of ‘living’
versus ‘wet’ samples: resolution and radiation damage. As shown by previous
attempts to image live cells in the SEM [1], radiation damage to the cells at high
magnification causes eventual cell death. This is due to electrons that can
penetrate the sample to a depth of up to a micrometer, and which probably lead
to direct ionization and the production of radicals.
Indeed, the higher magnification image of Figure 3 shows clear changes in the
topography of the cell surface (assuming that the same area is being imaged!).
This may be more consistent with gradual cell death over a time scale of tens of
minutes, rather than with endocytosis as suggested by the authors.
Once the cell is in the process of dying, it is harder to know what is being
imaged.
The authors would thus need to clarify whether indeed cells do survive imaging
at large magnifications. This may be done for example by assaying for cell death
those cells that have been directly imaged at large magnification. If cells survive
this kind of radiation then it is interesting and even surprising, and the
mechanism by which such a thin layer can prevent the energetic electrons from
reaching and harming the cell should be explained.
[1] S. Thiberge et. al, PNAS 101, 3346, (2004).
In the previous attempts (Thiberge et al, 2004), all the observations were
conducted by using fixed (dead) specimens and the conditions of SEM were
different (e.g. using backscattered electron at quite high acceleration voltage of
15 ~ 30 kV). In the present report, we used secondary electron at low voltage of
1 kV. We have experienced that if we irradiate the living specimens protected
with NanoSuit at such high voltages, it causes heavy damages on the samples.
We now think that the combination of very effective NanoSuit (less than 10 nm
thickness) and low acceleration voltage enables to observe specimens closely
approximating the natural condition. However, we have recognized that this
suggestion of Reviewer: 2 is very important, so that we have revised the
manuscript and added sentences in Discussion describing this wet SEM
technique focusing on electron voltages and radiation damage.
“There have been several previous attempts to adapt SEM for the
observation of wet samples. Thiberge et al used polyimide or silicon nitride
membranes to protect the sample from the vacuum [14]. However, this
method required the use of a high acceleration voltages (15 ~ 30 kV) to
penetrate the relatively thick membranes. The intense radiation of the
electron beam during high magnification imaging was sufficient to cause
damage to the specimens. A related technique for imaging wet tissue in SEM
has recently been described by Wojcik et al [15]. This method covers tissue
specimens with a monolayer of graphene. In addition to being technically
challenging, these methods appear only to work successfully with fixed
tissue samples. By contrast, our SSE based NanoSuit method can be applied
to both living specimens (figure 1c,g; figure 2a-d; figure 4 and figure 5) and to
fixed tissue (figure 6a,d,e; the electronic supplementary material, figure
S2b-d) and requires only use of low voltage electrons (1 kV).”
Society Open
