Mismatch between the eye and the optic lobe in the giant
squid
Yung-Chieh Liu, Tsung-Han Liu, Chun-Chieh Yu, Chia-Hao Su and Chuan-Chin Chiao
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170289.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170289
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 March 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 June 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 June 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170289.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is an exciting paper as it examines the neurological infrastructure of the visual system of the
rare giant squid
A long standing problem in the study of these deep water animals is that one must base
conclusions on very few specimen. However, there is no way around it.
Over all the methodology is well suited for the question asked and the conclusions are based in
the results. Yes, one may ask the questions- how large is too large? And are proportions always
needed?
But this is not in the scope of this paper nor should it be.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Roger Hanlon)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached file for comments to author (Appendix A).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170289)
15-May-2017
Dear Dr Chiao
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170289 entitled
"Mismatch between the eye and the optic lobe in the giant squid" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
3
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170289
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
4
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 24-May-2017). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This is an exciting paper as it examines the neurological infrastructure of the visual system of the
rare giant squid
A long standing problem in the study of these deep water animals is that one must base
conclusions on very few specimen. However, there is no way around it.
Over all the methodology is well suited for the question asked and the conclusions are based in
the results. Yes, one may ask the questions- how large is too large? And are proportions always
needed?
But this is not in the scope of this paper nor should it be.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
See attached file for comments to author
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170289)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170289.R1)
19-Jun-2017
Dear Dr Chiao,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Mismatch between the eye and the
optic lobe in the giant squid" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
6
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
ppendix A
e topic of this paper will be of great general interest in biology as well as many
er disciplines and to the general public since this is an iconic animal for which
y little actual data exist.
reover, this is a very rare opportunity to have received fresh material for
entific analysis - there are few areas in the world where this could occur and the
wanese scientific team have taken good advantage of this serendipitous nearby
ding of Architeuthis.
is is a novel anatomical study that improves our knowledge of the enigmatic
nt squid. The idea of measuring the volume and density of the optic lobe
dulla and cortex with two other well-known and studied cephalopods is a good
e.
elieve there are several ways the ms could be improved. The main distraction in
ms are the two “hypotheses.” Both should be deleted in favor of simple
larative sentences that state what the finding is. As presented, these
ypotheses” seem as if they were concocted ex post facto and that weakens the
per.
e first hypothesis - Line 57 in the abstract - is rather banal; after all, where else
uld one expect visual info to be processed?
e second hypothesis - Line 208 in discussion - need not be invoked; there are
ually two items hypothesized there: that large eyes have well developed
cessing; and that they are probably used to detect predators at far distances. The
t is rather self evident, and the second has been developed by previous authors
d this present paper does not support such an optical effect. Moreover, this
pothesis is different from the one in the abstract. Best to delete this hypothesis
gle - the morphological study presented here tells an interesting story on its own.
e anatomical analysis here is adequate given that the squid was caught at sea and
on ice for quite a while (6 hrs); that is, there were not scientists on board the
hing vessel who could dissect and properly fix the freshest tissue with correct
micals. Thus there is no opportunity to do EM work, silver staining, etc. Using
omparative basis to look at size/volume of these brain parts was clever and
ful as compared to the nearshore species - no one has used MRI scanning and
reconstruction of specific brain parts of cephs before (at least as far as I know).
SULTS
1- Slightly odd statement because the white body does more than hold the
ball in place. It is a hematopoietic organ (this is mentioned in discussion - altho
hors should cite the paper by M Claus on this.).
0, 203 - authors have a good approach to compare to well known other cephs but
d a more thorough and convincing comparison. They could/ should talk up the
histication of oval squid and cuttlefish brain and behavior - readers will not be
e to appreciate how visually well endowed they are unless you spell it out a bit.
SCUSSION
2 - Begin a new paragraph with “The medulla of the optic lobe …” because this
seminal feature of this paper.
8 - [this point about hypotheses has already been cited above in this review]. A
estion that arises is how the authors can make the leap from saying cortex/
dulla ratio is different but that it helps better detection properties? This is too
culative to go from form (anatomy) to function (visual perception and
havioral action). This needs to be soft-pedaled.
3 - “living in poor light.” …. rather say “living in dim light from
luminescence for most of their life cycle.” After all, these squids may live in
hted environments for the first portion of their life cycle and this relatively small
cimen was captured in 20m water !
erall, the ms would benefit from general tightening up to make the key points
re clear and concise. Also, I notice that the captions are sometimes redundant
h the text.
ure 2B - what size scale is the bar?
summary, I find this to be a very interesting paper and a firm contribution to the
logy of the giant squid in particular, and deep-sea biology and general.
ned: Roger Hanlon (11 May 2017)
Appendix B
Review #1
This is an exciting paper as it examines the neurological infrastructure of the visual
system of the rare giant squid A long standing problem in the study of these deep
water animals is that one must base conclusions on very few specimen. However,
there is no way around it. Over all the methodology is well suited for the question
asked and the conclusions are based in the results. Yes, one may ask the questions-
how large is too large? And are proportions always needed? But this is not in the
scope of this paper nor should it be.
Reply: Thanks for the reviewer’s supportive view. Indeed, whether the size of optic
lobe has to be proportionally to the size of the eye in cephalopods is an interesting
question. We don’t have evidence to support or against it, thus we leave it open
without any speculation.
Review #2
The topic of this paper will be of great general interest in biology as well as many
other disciplines and to the general public since this is an iconic animal for which
very little actual data exist. Moreover, this is a very rare opportunity to have received
fresh material for scientific analysis - there are few areas in the world where this
could occur and the Taiwanese scientific team have taken good advantage of this
serendipitous nearby landing of Architeuthis. This is a novel anatomical study that
improves our knowledge of the enigmatic giant squid. The idea of measuring the
volume and density of the optic lobe medulla and cortex with two other well-known
and studied cephalopods is a good one.
Reply: Thanks for the reviewer’s support and encouragement.
I believe there are several ways the ms could be improved. The main distraction in the
ms are the two “hypotheses.” Both should be deleted in favor of simple declarative
sentences that state what the finding is. As presented, these “hypotheses” seem as if
they were concocted ex post facto and that weakens the paper. The first hypothesis -
Line 57 in the abstract - is rather banal; after all, where else would one expect visual
info to be processed? The second hypothesis - Line 208 in discussion - need not be
invoked; there are actually two items hypothesized there: that large eyes have well
developed processing; and that they are probably used to detect predators at far
distances. The first is rather self evident, and the second has been developed by
previous authors and this present paper does not support such an optical effect.
Moreover, this hypothesis is different from the one in the abstract. Best to delete this
hypothesis angle - the morphological study presented here tells an interesting story on
its own.
Reply: We agree with the reviewer that these hypotheses are not necessary in the
manuscript. We have removed both of them in the Abstract and Discussion.
The anatomical analysis here is adequate given that the squid was caught at sea and
put on ice for quite a while (6 hrs); that is, there were not scientists on board the
fishing vessel who could dissect and properly fix the freshest tissue with correct
chemicals. Thus there is no opportunity to do EM work, silver staining, etc. Using a
comparative basis to look at size/volume of these brain parts was clever and useful as
compared to the nearshore species - no one has used MRI scanning and 3D
reconstruction of specific brain parts of cephs before (at least as far as I know).
Reply: Thanks for the reviewer’s appreciation of our approach.
RESULTS 151- Slightly odd statement because the white body does more than hold
the eyeball in place. It is a hematopoietic organ (this is mentioned in discussion - altho
authors should cite the paper by M Claus on this.).
Reply: We have added “the white body is a hematopoietic organ” in this sentence. We
have also cited the paper by MF Claes (Functional morphology of the white bodies of
the cephalopod mollusc Sepia officinalis) in this section and Discussion.
160, 203 - authors have a good approach to compare to well known other cephs but
need a more thorough and convincing comparison. They could/ should talk up the
sophistication of oval squid and cuttlefish brain and behavior - readers will not be able
to appreciate how visually well endowed they are unless you spell it out a bit.
Reply: Thanks for the reviewer’s reminder. We have added a few words in this section
to emphasize the sophistication of oval squid and cuttlefish brain and behavior. It now
reads “These morphological features in the optic lobe of the giant squid are more
pronounced when compared with other two shallow water cephalopod species, oval
squid Sepioteuthis lessoniana and cuttlefish Sepia pharaonis, whose dynamic body
patterning for communication and camouflage is sophisticated [24]”.
DISCUSSION
202 - Begin a new paragraph with “The medulla of the optic lobe …” because this is a
seminal feature of this paper.
Reply: Done.
208 - [this point about hypotheses has already been cited above in this review]. A
question that arises is how the authors can make the leap from saying cortex/ medulla
ratio is different but that it helps better detection properties? This is too speculative to
go from form (anatomy) to function (visual perception and behavioral action). This
needs to be soft-pedaled.
Reply: Agree. We have removed this hypothesis in the Discussion.
213 - “living in poor light.” …. rather say “living in dim light from bioluminescence
for most of their life cycle.” After all, these squids may live in lighted environments
for the first portion of their life cycle and this relatively small specimen was captured
in 20m water !
Reply: We have modified this sentence according to the reviewer’s suggestion.
Overall, the ms would benefit from general tightening up to make the key points more
clear and concise. Also, I notice that the captions are sometimes redundant with the
text.
Reply: We have revised this manuscript slightly to make the key points more clear
and concise. For the captions, we aimed to make each figure standalone, thus some
redundancy with the text is necessary. We hope the reviewer and editor allow us to
keep these wordings. Thanks.
Figure 2B - what size scale is the bar?
Reply: Scale bar, 1 cm. We have added this info in the figure legend.
In summary, I find this to be a very interesting paper and a firm contribution to the
biology of the giant squid in particular, and deep-sea biology and general.
Reply: Thanks for the reviewer’s praise.
Society Open
