New Guinea bone daggers were engineered to preserve
social prestige
Nathaniel J. Dominy, Samuel T. Mills, Christopher M. Yakacki, Paul B. Roscoe and R.
Dana Carpenter
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172067.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172067
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 20 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172067.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper compares two types of bone daggers from New Guinea: those shaped from human
femora and those fashioned from cassowary bird tibiotarsi. The former type has greater symbolic
significance. The cross-sectional curvature of the human bone daggers also hints at superior
mechanical performance, but the material properties of cassowary bone are not well known.
Using computed tomography, the authors provide evidence that both types of bone have similar
material properties, which in turn suggests that the human bone daggers may have been
engineered to preserve their symbolic capital. This accords well with the signalling theory that
informs this manuscript. The paper successfully intersects the physical and life sciences with the
social sciences and arts, making an important contribution to the latter fields by applying
scientific and methodological rigour to the investigation of their question.
My main criticism is with the title of the paper, which promises much more than is actually
delivered. “Bone daggers reveal the mechanics of social prestige”? The link with social prestige is
suggestive at best, and little if anything about the actual mechanics of social prestige is revealed.
“A possible link between bone daggers and social prestige” would be more accurate.
A more minor criticism involves the statement, “A man could inherit the femur of his father
when the corpse was reduced to a skeleton [5] or he could appropriate the femur of his
vanquished enemy [8]” might suggest that these are the only routes by which suitable bone could
be obtained, but there are certainly other possibilities.
Anthropologists tell us that there are over a thousand different New Guinea cultures and
consequently, they are very reluctant to make unqualified generalizations about them all. While I
have not done the research necessary to support the following assertion, I am nevertheless quite
certain that the statement: “Another possibility stems from the unique cosmology and mythology
of cassowaries –they were UNIFORMLY [emphasis added] sexed as female and NEVER
[emphasis added] classified as birds [21, 22]– which might suggest that daggers were imbued
with potent religious and mythical attributes…” isn’t strictly true. For instance, I remember that
the “Sambia” believed that one species of cassowary consisted of all males while the other species
was all females. And the Bimin-Kuskusmin believed that all cassowaries were actually
androgynous, with each bird having both sets of sexual parts. I also recall reading about other
groups who certainly did regard cassowaries as birds. In short, there is certainly much more
variation in beliefs about cassowaries in New Guinea than the authors’ statement suggests. And
actually, this supports their argument.
My final observation involves the section, “It is therefore difficult to explain why dagger-makers
working with a tibiotarsus would choose to remove so much of the mediolateral wall (figure 2d).
A flatter cross-sectional shape is a weaker macrostructure and it is tempting to speculate that the
disadvantages of this design are balanced by reductions in weight during fighting or friction
during insertion. In the event of breakage, a cassowary bone dagger is easily replaced, whereas a
human bone dagger is not.” I may be wrong, but it seems that the cassowary bone may be thicker
than the human bone in cross-section, at least the femurs of the generally small statured New
Guinea peoples whose bones were being employed. Since these daggers were often worn in a
woven rattan armband, the flatter cross-sectional shape of the cassowary bone daggers would
3
also make them easier to carry in this fashion.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See comments in file attached (Appendix A).
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
4
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This is an interesting article basically comparing daggers made from human bone with those
from cassowary bones. I enjoyed reading the article, however, I found linking their experiments
with social prestige somewhat lacking. More middle range theory is needed linking the data with
models explaining the results. Also, presenting these results should be made clearer.
It is noted upfront that “daggers shaped from human femora carried greater social prestige”. But
their results argue that human bone daggers are stronger and I would assume better suited for
their purpose – i.e. sticking into people.
As their results show:
1. Mechanics properties of compact bone are similar in the human femur and cassowary
tibiotarsus.
2. Human bone dagger is stronger than cassowary.
But they also argue that:
3. A cassowary bone dagger is easily replaced, whereas a human bone dagger is not?
I am not sure about this. There is never a shortage of human bone in many PNG societies.
Finding cassowaries on the other hand was not that easy – that is why they were so valuable as
an exchange item. So why assume that human bone “were also prestigious in part because
suitable femora were limited”? I would have thought that there was an abundant supply of
human bone of our species (ancestor or vanquished). It’s the cassowaries that would have been
harder to pin down. The fewness of human bone daggers in museums may more to do with the
reluctance of people to part with them, or more recently the prohibition of the export of human
remains?
4. Their conclusion is: “We conclude by suggesting that people in the Sepik region of New Guinea
engineered human bone daggers to withstand breakage, and that their prevailing motivation was
to preserve intact the embodiment of symbolic strength and social prestige, an outcome that
agrees well with the predictions of signalling theory”.
I have no problem in people making human bone daggers because they as a tool are best in doing
the job required of them. If less break then less would be made. If they were more superior to
cassowary bone daggers then no wonder they were not exchanged or ended up in a museum.
How is this to do with the preservation intact of the embodiment of symbolic strength? This is
where more discussion is needed, and much more data from ethnography presented. In
particular, more detail on decoration on bone daggers, and the form or decoration and
distribution.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172067)
29-Jan-2018
Dear Dr Dominy,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Bone daggers reveal the mechanics of social prestige") have
now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your paper in accordance
with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below (not including
5
confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee eventual
acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 21-Feb-2018). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available, we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172067
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
6
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Matthew Collins (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor's comments (Professor Matthew Collins):
This is an interesting example of cross-disciplinary work, to tackle an unusual topic. The
reviewers notably Referee 1 (who previously reviewed the same paper for Royal Society
Interface) were concerned that the dataset is too limited to draw strong conclusions about
signalling theory or social prestige.
7
The journal is keen to support, innovative interdisciplinary research, and the suggestion of
referee 1 that the MS could be improved by expanding the study to add data about the number of
daggers, type of daggers, and social prestige/reproductive success in different societies in New
Guinea would be interesting. While as an editor I appreciate that it would not be realistic to
conduct biomechanical analyses on all these other daggers, their distribution could be explored in
the light of the findings of this study.
The MS should be rebalanced with a shortened introduction with a reduced emphasis on
signalling theory, and more in the methods on the FE models.
The results and discussion should both be revised in the light of the detailed comments from the
referees.
The title should be revised to more accurately reflect the final content of the article.
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This paper compares two types of bone daggers from New Guinea: those shaped from human
femora and those fashioned from cassowary bird tibiotarsi. The former type has greater symbolic
significance. The cross-sectional curvature of the human bone daggers also hints at superior
mechanical performance, but the material properties of cassowary bone are not well known.
Using computed tomography, the authors provide evidence that both types of bone have similar
material properties, which in turn suggests that the human bone daggers may have been
engineered to preserve their symbolic capital. This accords well with the signalling theory that
informs this manuscript. The paper successfully intersects the physical and life sciences with the
social sciences and arts, making an important contribution to the latter fields by applying
scientific and methodological rigour to the investigation of their question.
My main criticism is with the title of the paper, which promises much more than is actually
delivered. “Bone daggers reveal the mechanics of social prestige”? The link with social prestige is
suggestive at best, and little if anything about the actual mechanics of social prestige is revealed.
“A possible link between bone daggers and social prestige” would be more accurate.
A more minor criticism involves the statement, “A man could inherit the femur of his father
when the corpse was reduced to a skeleton [5] or he could appropriate the femur of his
vanquished enemy [8]” might suggest that these are the only routes by which suitable bone could
be obtained, but there are certainly other possibilities.
Anthropologists tell us that there are over a thousand different New Guinea cultures and
consequently, they are very reluctant to make unqualified generalizations about them all. While I
have not done the research necessary to support the following assertion, I am nevertheless quite
certain that the statement: “Another possibility stems from the unique cosmology and mythology
of cassowaries –they were UNIFORMLY [emphasis added] sexed as female and NEVER
[emphasis added] classified as birds [21, 22]– which might suggest that daggers were imbued
with potent religious and mythical attributes…” isn’t strictly true. For instance, I remember that
the “Sambia” believed that one species of cassowary consisted of all males while the other species
was all females. And the Bimin-Kuskusmin believed that all cassowaries were actually
8
androgynous, with each bird having both sets of sexual parts. I also recall reading about other
groups who certainly did regard cassowaries as birds. In short, there is certainly much more
variation in beliefs about cassowaries in New Guinea than the authors’ statement suggests. And
actually, this supports their argument.
My final observation involves the section, “It is therefore difficult to explain why dagger-makers
working with a tibiotarsus would choose to remove so much of the mediolateral wall (figure 2d).
A flatter cross-sectional shape is a weaker macrostructure and it is tempting to speculate that the
disadvantages of this design are balanced by reductions in weight during fighting or friction
during insertion. In the event of breakage, a cassowary bone dagger is easily replaced, whereas a
human bone dagger is not.” I may be wrong, but it seems that the cassowary bone may be thicker
than the human bone in cross-section, at least the femurs of the generally small statured New
Guinea peoples whose bones were being employed. Since these daggers were often worn in a
woven rattan armband, the flatter cross-sectional shape of the cassowary bone daggers would
also make them easier to carry in this fashion.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
See comments in file attached
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
This is an interesting article basically comparing daggers made from human bone with those
from cassowary bones. I enjoyed reading the article, however, I found linking their experiments
with social prestige somewhat lacking. More middle range theory is needed linking the data with
models explaining the results. Also, presenting these results should be made clearer.
It is noted upfront that “daggers shaped from human femora carried greater social prestige”. But
their results argue that human bone daggers are stronger and I would assume better suited for
their purpose – i.e. sticking into people.
As their results show:
1. Mechanics properties of compact bone are similar in the human femur and cassowary
tibiotarsus.
2. Human bone dagger is stronger than cassowary.
But they also argue that:
3. A cassowary bone dagger is easily replaced, whereas a human bone dagger is not?
I am not sure about this. There is never a shortage of human bone in many PNG societies.
Finding cassowaries on the other hand was not that easy – that is why they were so valuable as
an exchange item. So why assume that human bone “were also prestigious in part because
suitable femora were limited”? I would have thought that there was an abundant supply of
human bone of our species (ancestor or vanquished). It’s the cassowaries that would have been
harder to pin down. The fewness of human bone daggers in museums may more to do with the
reluctance of people to part with them, or more recently the prohibition of the export of human
remains?
4. Their conclusion is: “We conclude by suggesting that people in the Sepik region of New Guinea
engineered human bone daggers to withstand breakage, and that their prevailing motivation was
to preserve intact the embodiment of symbolic strength and social prestige, an outcome that
agrees well with the predictions of signalling theory”.
9
I have no problem in people making human bone daggers because they as a tool are best in doing
the job required of them. If less break then less would be made. If they were more superior to
cassowary bone daggers then no wonder they were not exchanged or ended up in a museum.
How is this to do with the preservation intact of the embodiment of symbolic strength? This is
where more discussion is needed, and much more data from ethnography presented. In
particular, more detail on decoration on bone daggers, and the form or decoration and
distribution.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172067)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172067.R1)
20-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Dominy,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "New Guinea bone daggers were
engineered to preserve social prestige" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and
accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge,
unless you request a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out
more about the charges at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you
have any queries, please contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
10
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Professor Matthew Collins (Associate Editor) and Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Professor Matthew Collins):
Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_7
I feel that you have answered the criticisms, and I appreciate the new title. "New Guinea bone
daggers were engineered to preserve social prestige"
I feel that that the paper is now better balanced, and hope that that the revised version will have
some impact.
ppendix A
Below is the review for Dominy et al., Bone daggers reveal the mechanics of social prestige.
ore I begin my review, I wish to make it known I was not one of the original reviewers, and thus my
ments may appear to be out of line with the previous reviews. I was also asked to make this review
behalf of Royal Society Open Science, but see at the end of the response to reviewers that Dominy et
were resubmitting to Royal Society Interface.
I always find it pleasurable to read manuscripts that find unique ways of tackling problems, and
ught the authors took a unique and interesting approach. However, I do not think they can conclude
thing about signaling theory or social prestige based on the data they have gathered. The data here
test biomechanical hypotheses, and at best say that, these daggers which were preferred for these
sons, performed better/worse. No data was gathered that can test any hypotheses about signaling
ory or social prestige. It would be very interesting and improve the manuscript immensely if the
hors included data about number of daggers, type of daggers, and social prestige/reproductive
cess in different societies in New Guinea, and showed correlations between biomechanical
formance and these factors, but they do not. They qualitatively tell an interesting story about the
ortance of the daggers, but give no data concerning their social aspects, and do not tie their results
ignaling theory or social prestige, which I found quite upsetting.
As a previous reviewer stated, I also find this paper quire top heavy, with a long introduction
short results/discussion section, and there is much missing from the M&M concerning the FE
dels (e.g. what constraints were applied? And as previously stated by another reviewer and discussed
ore detail below, why 20% of the length of the femur? Why not a constant displacement? And if we
talking about dagger performance, why not a constant force, since a person would be limited by the
e they can produce?)
I further find it odd that signaling theory was all but absent from the paper after the
oduction, yet it is the focus of the introduction. As I talk about below, and as some of the reviewers
viously noted, I don’t think this paper does anything to tackle the question signaling theory, it really
s like two papers mashed into one: the first paper discussing the social aspects, and the second
ussing the biomechanics. It is always difficult to marry disparate subjects, and for that I am
pathetic to the challenges taken on by the authors, but I do not think they were successful in
rying these topics here.
General problems discussed in greater detail below
• I wonder if this article really belongs in the subject category of biology (whole
organism), as this does not have to do with human or cassowary biology
• No conclusions can be made about social aspects of bone daggers or signal theory based
on this data
• Scans: they are very poor resolution and full of artifacts, making it difficult to trust any
conclusions drawn from them
• Percent volume failure criteria should not be used here, it makes no sense from a
biomechanical/materials science perspective
eral minor comments
uld change the title. As it reads, it sounds like you are going to discuss how bone daggers reveal the
er workings of social prestige, but that is not what is being done.
etimes you have a hyphen between human and bone (human-bone), and sometimes you do not.
ase be consistent.
TRACT
ubt the macrostructure of human-bone daggers existed to preserve symbolic value of the prestigious
ect. It was prestigious because it was made of human bones, and human bones (generally) have a
erent macrostructure.
can delete “10 of which… Dartmouth College.” It is not standard to say where specimens are housed
he abstract, nor relevant to the study.
e superior mechanical performance…” The mechanical performance was not tested up until this
nt, so it cannot be supported by something else.
n’t agree with the final sentence. The researchers did not test if the daggers were “engineered to
serve symbolic capital,” but compared the mechanical performance of cassowary vs. human bone
gers. A more accurate conclusion would be, “Taken together, our findings suggest that human bone
gers were stronger than cassowary bones, and therefore may have lasted longer.” Also, up until this
nt, signaling theory and the predictions there within have not been stated, so to conclude that
an bones are stronger than cassowary bones, which would be expected given you are comparing
to mammal bones (mammals have denser), supports signaling theory leaves me very confused.
RODUCTION
ding how the authors are defining signaling theory in the first paragraph, I can confidently conclude
t mechanical performance of human vs. cassowary bone daggers cannot be used to support or show
of support for signaling theory. Whether or not you have human bone daggers, and how many you
e/how beautiful they are has nothing to do with the mechanical strength of the bone: it has to do
h whether you have access to human remains. Therefore, I would remove everything about signaling
ory from this paper.
iomechanical tradeoffs in a social signal…” I do not see how this is a biomechanical trade-off. I see
it is a trade-off between the use of a strong object and a social symbol, but that is not a
mechanical tradeoff.
tion 1.1
hird explanation…” The biomechanical explanation of why other mammal bones were not used is
ed. Although bird bones would resist bending and twisting better, they are less dense and generally
ner, which would make them resist compression worse, and therefore have decrease performance
ing “stabbing” than a mammal bone. This needs to be discussed, and I do not feel this is an adequate
mechanical explanation for why cassowary, and not mammal bones, were used.
haps they used cassowary bones because they looked more “human like” when carved into a dagger
n other mammal bones?
tion 1.2
uggesting that the structural mechanics of daggers can hold adaptive value.” This is an odd sentence
t is unsupported. What is supported is that the strength of the dagger may hold adaptive value, but
ctural mechanics is too vague. E.g. Young’s modulus of the dagger probably does not have adaptive
e, unless all else is being held constant, it is whether or not the dagger breaks.
tion 1.3
you sure it is the retention of greater cross-sectional curvature and not just the retention of bone
s along the shaft, in general?
TERIAL AND METHODS
t voxel size is much too low for this study, particularly given the statement highlighted in section 1.3
he Introduction. At this resolution, you will not be able to image the carvings on the outside of the
e with any detail, which would cause to weaken the bone and create stress concentrations. And if
earchers think it might be high enough resolution, I ask them to look at FigS2. The edges of the bone
very fuzzy, and the image are littered with scanning artifacts. Just changing the thresholds used
htly could drastically change the conclusions of this study.
e estimated dagger penetration in human joints at 20%...” …but why? You should hold depth
stant, not percentage of length – this is because, to do the same damage to a given joint, you would
d to penetrate to the same depth, not to the same percentage of shaft length. Or if not depth, force,
e each individual is limited in terms of their maximum penetration force.
tion 2.3
cannot separate trabecular bone from cortical using greyscale values, as the density of individual
eculi is the same as cortical bone
idea of “percent volume failure criterion” is misapplied here. Failure in these daggers occurs
ause of brittle fracture, not ductile failure, as can be seen by the figure. Therefore, you need to use
ture mechanics to determine at which point the dagger fails, not von Mises failure criteria. If you do
know where the microcrack are that will spread and cause failure, you can assume they are equally
ributed over the dagger, and once a certain stress is reach, it will cause a crack in that region to
pagate and cause the dagger to fail. Once that happens, the dagger is broken, full stop, it cannot
ak more (in the manner discussed in this paper). This criterion being used assumes some daggers can
more than others, and the dagger can fail at multiple locations in a single thrust, which is not true.
at the author should do is slowly load the model over several substeps and determine the point at
ch the maximum stresses in the model exceed their failure criteria, and at that point in time, perhaps
pare the forces? I do not suggest comparing stress magnitude at their final loads, as this would be
uming one dagger can fail more or less than another.
o believe that von Mises failure criterion, which is used for ductile materials, is appropriate for
tile, wet bone, is not appropriate for brittle, dry bone.
tion 2.4
h a sample size of n=5 human daggers, it is impossible to reach significance of p<0.05 using exact p-
es. Non-parametric tests or Bayesian statistics should be used instead.
ULTS AND DISCUSSION
oung’s modulus of 24.01 GPa does not correspond well with those other mechanical properties for
s.
not believe the picture of the foot in Fig 3 contributes to this study, nor do I understand how the
ribution of cassowary’s or bone daggers in fig 4 adds to this study, as this study does not discuss the
ults in terms of different cultures, population densities, cassowary distribution, etc. within New
nea. These are pretty pictures that do not improve the study.
y is Fig 5 needed given Fig 1? Could they not be combined if both are needed?
ite on white in Fig 6 makes it difficult to view the 3D models.
10 looks as if it is a poorly cropped chart. Why are you artificially cutting off the percent volume
d at 10%?
pendix B
Dartmouth College HANOVER • NEW HAMPSHIRE • 03755-3547
Department of Anthropology • 6047 Silsby Hall • (603) 646-1849 • FAX: (603) 646-1140
HANIEL J. DOMINY
rles Hansen Professor email: nathaniel.j.dominy@dartmouth.edu
ebruary 2018
essor Matthew Collins
ciate Editor
al Society Open Science
Re: Manuscript ID RSOS-172067
r Professor Collins:
are grateful for the opportunity to revise and resubmit our Research Article titled, “New Guinea bone
gers were engineered to preserve social prestige” by Dominy et al. We are grateful to you and to each
ewer for his/her thoughtful comments and constructive feedback. We have revised our manuscript
rdingly, as detailed below:
Associate Editor comments (Collins):
1. The MS should be rebalanced with a shortened introduction with a reduced emphasis on signalling theory, and
more in the methods on the FE models.
Author response: We are in agreement with this comment. We have deleted two full paragraphs from the
introduction to better balance the manuscript. In addition, we have augmented the methods sections.
2. The results and discussion should both be revised in the light of the detailed comments from the referees.
Author response: We are in agreement and we have endeavored to do so (see author responses below)
3. The title should be revised to more accurately reflect the final content of the article.
Author response: We are in agreement with this comment. Our revised title is “New Guinea bone daggers were
engineered to preserve social prestige”
Reviewer: 1
1. My main criticism is with the title of the paper, which promises much more than is actually delivered. “Bone
daggers reveal the mechanics of social prestige”? The link with social prestige is suggestive at best, and little if
anything about the actual mechanics of social prestige is revealed. “A possible link between bone daggers and
social prestige” would be more accurate.
Author response: We are in agreement with this comment. Our revised title is “New Guinea bone daggers were
engineered to preserve social prestige”
2. A more minor criticism involves the statement, “A man could inherit the femur of his father when the corpse was
reduced to a skeleton [5] or he could appropriate the femur of his vanquished enemy [8]” might suggest that these
are the only routes by which suitable bone could be obtained, but there are certainly other possibilities.
Author response: Yes other human femora are widely available, but these would have carried less power and
prestige. This distinction may explain why there are no published reports of other femora being used to produce
bone daggers. We have since edited this line for clarify our meaning of suitable: “Human bone daggers were
prestigious [4] in part because the most suitable femora were sourced from battle-proven men, usually those of a
father, once the corpse was reduced to a skeleton [4], or those of a vanquished enemy [16]. They were weapons
filled with substantial strength, i.e., they were the manifestation of spiritual power [17], allowing the owner to lay
claim to the powers of the man who surrendered the bone.”
3. Anthropologists tell us that there are over a thousand different New Guinea cultures and consequently, they are
very reluctant to make unqualified generalizations about them all. While I have not done the research necessary to
support the following assertion, I am nevertheless quite certain that the statement: “Another possibility stems
from the unique cosmology and mythology of cassowaries –they were UNIFORMLY [emphasis added] sexed as
female and NEVER [emphasis added] classified as birds [21, 22]– which might suggest that daggers were imbued
with potent religious and mythical attributes…” isn’t strictly true. For instance, I remember that the “Sambia”
believed that one species of cassowary consisted of all males while the other species was all females. And the
Bimin-Kuskusmin believed that all cassowaries were actually androgynous, with each bird having both sets of sexual
parts. I also recall reading about other groups who certainly did regard cassowaries as birds. In short, there is
certainly much more variation in beliefs about cassowaries in New Guinea than the authors’ statement suggests.
And actually, this supports their argument.
Author response: We are in agreement with this comment, and we have tracked down the corroborating
references. Our revised text on this point reads: “Cassowary bone daggers also featured prominently in local
prestige economies [30-31] in part because cassowaries were imbued with deep cultural significance: commonly
sexed as female, they were widely metaphorized and mythically and ritually cast as women, wives, and sometimes
enemies rather than as birds [32-35]. Possession of a cassowary bone dagger was thus a plausible signal of male
hunting ability, physical and ritual strength, and status.”
4. My final observation involves the section, “It is therefore difficult to explain why dagger-makers working with a
tibiotarsus would choose to remove so much of the mediolateral wall (figure 2d). A flatter cross-sectional shape is a
weaker macrostructure and it is tempting to speculate that the disadvantages of this design are balanced by
reductions in weight during fighting or friction during insertion. In the event of breakage, a cassowary bone dagger
is easily replaced, whereas a human bone dagger is not.” I may be wrong, but it seems that the cassowary bone
may be thicker than the human bone in cross-section, at least the femurs of the generally small statured New
Guinea peoples whose bones were being employed. Since these daggers were often worn in a woven rattan
armband, the flatter cross-sectional shape of the cassowary bone daggers would also make them easier to carry in
this fashion.
Author response: Reviewer 1 makes a good point, and we have added text about potential comfort for the owner:
“A flatter cross-sectional shape is a weaker macrostructure and it is tempting to speculate that the disadvantages
of this design are balanced by greater comfort for the owner (when fixed to the upper arm; cf. figure 2) or perhaps
reduced weight during fighting or friction during insertion.”
Reviewer: 2
I always find it pleasurable to read manuscripts that find unique ways of tackling problems, and thought the
authors took a unique and interesting approach. However, I do not think they can conclude anything about
signaling theory or social prestige based on the data they have gathered. The data here can test biomechanical
hypotheses, and at best say that, these daggers which were preferred for these reasons, performed better/worse.
No data was gathered that can test any hypotheses about signaling theory or social prestige. It would be very
interesting and improve the manuscript immensely if the authors included data about number of daggers, type of
daggers, and social prestige/reproductive success in different societies in New Guinea, and showed correlations
between biomechanical performance and these factors, but they do not. They qualitatively tell an interesting story
about the importance of the daggers, but give no data concerning their social aspects, and do not tie their results
to signaling theory or social prestige, which I found quite upsetting.
Author response: Yes, we can see how the original title (which altogether failed to be witty, insofar as it was
alluding to the mechanics of an object of prestige) might lead Reviewer 2 to expect data on signaling theory or
prestige. Our goal with this paper is not to test signaling theory; rather we are taking the framework as given and
trying to resolve a puzzle posed by the different macrostructures of bone daggers. We are very sorry for the
misunderstanding, which reappears throughout Reviewer 2’s comments below.
In addition, we clarify that these daggers are from the historical past (and it is therefore no longer possible to
collect “prestige/reproductive” data). Further, we have attempted to state more forcefully that bone daggers were
weapons and part and parcel of a man’s wider assertion of fighting strength. We believe these clarifications will
resolve Reviewer 2’s concerns.
As a previous reviewer stated, I also find this paper quire top heavy, with a long introduction and short
results/discussion section, and there is much missing from the M&M concerning the FE models (e.g. what
constraints were applied? And as previously stated by another reviewer and discussed in more detail below, why
20% of the length of the femur? Why not a constant displacement? And if we are talking about dagger
performance, why not a constant force, since a person would be limited by the force they can produce?)
Author response: We have deleted two full paragraphs from the introduction to better balance the manuscript. In
addition, we have augmented the methods sections.
I further find it odd that signaling theory was all but absent from the paper after the introduction, yet it is the focus
of the introduction. As I talk about below, and as some of the reviewers previously noted, I don’t think this paper
does anything to tackle the question signaling theory, it really feels like two papers mashed into one: the first paper
discussing the social aspects, and the second discussing the biomechanics. It is always difficult to marry disparate
subjects, and for that I am sympathetic to the challenges taken on by the authors, but I do not think they were
successful in marrying these topics here.
Author response: Again, this is a simple misunderstanding of our intent. We are not “tackling” signaling theory; we
are using it to frame our analysis, to explain why an object of art holds practical importance.
General problems discussed in greater detail below
1. I wonder if this article really belongs in the subject category of biology (whole organism), as this does not have to
do with human or cassowary biology
Author response: the online submission system (ScholarOne) has limited, pre-determined choices for categorizing a
paper. The “whole organism” category was the best fit. There is nothing we can do about it.
2. No conclusions can be made about social aspects of bone daggers or signal theory based on this data.
Author response: Precisely. Such conclusions are not our intent. The data are intended to solve a puzzle about the
different macrostructures of cassowary and human bone daggers.
3. Scans: they are very poor resolution and full of artifacts, making it difficult to trust any conclusions drawn from
them.
Author response: The CT scans used in the study were obtained with a voxel size of 0.2 mm x 0.2 mm x 1.25 mm. As
explained in greater detail below, this voxel size is well below the size used in nearly every whole-bone finite
element model reported in the literature. Thus, the resolution should be more than sufficient for the modeling
techniques used in this paper.
4. Percent volume failure criteria should not be used here, it makes no sense from a biomechanical/materials
science perspective.
Author response: The percent volume failure criterion, as explained in more detail below, is applied in this study
due to the fact that we have employed a continuum-based, whole-bone finite element analysis. A more detailed,
mechanistic failure criterion, tracking crack initiation and growth for example, would indeed be more appropriate
for a detailed study of microscopic bone failure mechanisms. However, predicting whole-bone fracture strength
using a percent failure criterion is appropriate in macro-scale models, where spurious high stress values due to
areas of sharp corners or elongated elements in the mesh can make stress values at single, discrete locations
unreliable. We take the more conservative approach of defining failure as a percent volume exceeding the ultimate
stress of bone tissue, and we maintain that its use is appropriate in this study. Given the differences in geometry
between the two types of daggers in the study, we do not expect that a more detailed, mechanistic failure criterion
would lead to a different conclusion, because both geometric analysis and FEA suggest that the daggers made of
human bone are significantly stronger than those made of cassowary bone.
General minor comments
I would change the title. As it reads, it sounds like you are going to discuss how bone daggers reveal the inner
workings of social prestige, but that is not what is being done.
Author response: Our revised title is “New Guinea bone daggers were engineered to preserve social prestige”
Sometimes you have a hyphen between human and bone (human-bone), and sometimes you do not.
Please be consistent.
Author response: Thank you for pointing out this inconsistency. The hyphens have been removed to make the
language more consistent.
ABSTRACT
-I doubt the macrostructure of human-bone daggers existed to preserve symbolic value of the prestigious object. It
was prestigious because it was made of human bones, and human bones (generally) have a different
macrostructure.
Author response: we are puzzled by this comment… the removal of mediolateral wall from cassowary bone (giving
daggers a flatter cross-sectional shape) was quite deliberate. So, yes, the two types of daggers have different
macrostructures, but it is because humans made them that way – our goal is to examine why people did this.
-You can delete “10 of which… Dartmouth College.” It is not standard to say where specimens are housed in the
abstract, nor relevant to the study.
Author response: we studied objects of art accessioned in an art museum… we believe that fact is relevant to our
study. We have revised this line to read: “To explore this question, we used computed tomography to examine the
structural mechanics of 11 bone daggers, 10 of which are museum-accessioned objects of art.”
-“The superior mechanical performance…” The mechanical performance was not tested up until this point, so it
cannot be supported by something else.
Author response: ok we have rewritten these lines in the active voice: “We found that human and cassowary bone
have similar material properties and that the geometry of human bone daggers results in higher moments of
inertia and a greater resistance to bending. Data from finite element models corroborated the superior mechanical
performance of human bone daggers, revealing greater resistance to larger loads with fewer failed elements.
-I don’t agree with the final sentence. The researchers did not test if the daggers were “engineered to preserve
symbolic capital,” but compared the mechanical performance of cassowary vs. human bone daggers. A more
accurate conclusion would be, “Taken together, our findings suggest that human bone daggers were stronger than
cassowary bones, and therefore may have lasted longer.” Also, up until this point, signaling theory and the
predictions there within have not been stated, so to conclude that human bones are stronger than cassowary
bones, which would be expected given you are comparing bird to mammal bones (mammals have denser), supports
signaling theory leaves me very confused.
Author response: the final sentence of the abstract is a discussionary point, reflecting our interpretation of the
data. The operative word is “suggest”, and readers are welcome to disagree with our suggested interpretation.
Lastly, Reviewer 2 appears to be writing under the impression that all bird bones are light and air-filled
(pneumatic). This presumption is untrue for large flightless birds, which is the point of figure 4, and demonstrably
untrue in figures S1 and S2. The leg bones of a 58-kg bipedal bird have the same functional demands as the leg
bones of a bipedal human, and we show that the thick cortical bone has similar material properties.
INTRODUCTION
-Reading how the authors are defining signaling theory in the first paragraph, I can confidently conclude that
mechanical performance of human vs. cassowary bone daggers cannot be used to support or show lack of support
for signaling theory. Whether or not you have human bone daggers, and how many you have/how beautiful they
are has nothing to do with the mechanical strength of the bone: it has to do with whether you have access to
human remains. Therefore, I would remove everything about signaling theory from this paper.
Author response: again, we are not testing signaling theory, as stated in Section 1.3 Study Aims. We have tried to
clarify that suitable human femora are limited – the bone must come from a respected warrior (and not women,
children, or “rubbish men”).
-“…biomechanical tradeoffs in a social signal…” I do not see how this is a biomechanical trade-off. I see how it is a
trade-off between the use of a strong object and a social symbol, but that is not a biomechanical tradeoff.
Author response: we have revised these lines to clarify our point: This dual concept of strength, together with the
dual function of bone daggers as weapons and symbols, is intriguing when one considers the different
macrostructures of bone daggers. Those made from a human femur were shaped differently and appear to be
better engineered for mechanical performance, which raises the possibility of biomechanical trade-offs in a social
signal, a topic that intersects the arts with the physical, life, and social sciences.
Section 1.1
-“A third explanation…” The biomechanical explanation of why other mammal bones were not used is flawed.
Although bird bones would resist bending and twisting better, they are less dense and generally thinner, which
would make them resist compression worse, and therefore have decrease performance during “stabbing” than a
mammal bone. This needs to be discussed, and I do not feel this is an adequate biomechanical explanation for why
cassowary, and not mammal bones, were used.
Author response: Reviewer 1 appears to be under the impression that the bones of cassowaries are like those of all
birds. The bones of cassowaries are uniquely human-like because it is a heavy bipedal organism. The idea that
cassowary bones are “less dense and thinner” than human bone is simply untrue, as our figures show.
-Perhaps they used cassowary bones because they looked more “human like” when carved into a dagger than other
mammal bones?
Author response: perhaps, but we actually report original data to show that the material properties are similar too.
Section 1.2
“…suggesting that the structural mechanics of daggers can hold adaptive value.” This is an odd sentence that is
unsupported. What is supported is that the strength of the dagger may hold adaptive value, but structural
mechanics is too vague. E.g. Young’s modulus of the dagger probably does not have adaptive value, unless all else
is being held constant, it is whether or not the dagger breaks.
Author response: We are in agreement, and the words “structural mechanics” have been replaced with the word
“strength”
Section 1.3
Are you sure it is the retention of greater cross-sectional curvature and not just the retention of bone mass along
the shaft, in general?
Author response: We cannot be sure, but the reviewer has a valid point. Retaining as much bone as possible, while
still creating the desired design, would help to strengthen the dagger. Whether the derived benefit in strength is
due to retaining a higher moment of inertia (for bending and/or torsional strength) or simply a higher amount of
bone (for axial strength) would depend on the loads the dagger experiences during use. As explained below, it is
likely that a high amount of bending and/or torsion would be applied to the dagger during use.
MATERIAL AND METHODS
-That voxel size is much too low for this study, particularly given the statement highlighted in section 1.3 of the
Introduction. At this resolution, you will not be able to image the carvings on the outside of the bone with any
detail, which would cause to weaken the bone and create stress concentrations. And if researchers think it might
be high enough resolution, I ask them to look at FigS2. The edges of the bone are very fuzzy, and the image are
littered with scanning artifacts. Just changing the thresholds used slightly could drastically change the conclusions
of this study.
Author response: The CT scans used in the study were obtained with a voxel size of 0.2 mm x 0.2 mm x 1.25 mm.
Our laboratory and others (see publications by Joyce Keyak, Tony Keaveny, and Karen Troy, for example) routinely
use voxel sizes ranging from 0.7 mm to 3 mm to create finite element models for predicting whole bone strength.
Therefore, the resolution used in this study is much better than what is typically used. Since we did not have
concerns with radiation dose, as would exist in a living patient, we purposely adjusted our scanner settings to
obtain high-quality images at the limits available within a standard CT imaging system. As seen in Fig. 2, the image
resolution clearly resolves the surface carvings. The reviewer is invited to view the 3D models in detail at the
MorphoSource website (http://www.morphosource.org; media nos. 16844-19859), where the models can be
examined using the built-in STL model viewer. Since the daggers were scanned in air, Reviewer 2 is correct that
some artifacts exist. This is the case for any CT scan of a dense object scanned in air. Our laboratory has extensive
experience in medical image processing, segmentation, and 3D model creation. Using a threshold-driven region
growing algorithm ensures that a fully-connected, continuous structure is obtained for the model. By adjusting the
threshold downward, only a small layer of additional surface voxels is included in the model (again, due to the high
contrast between bone and air), with trivial effects on the overall geometry and predicted strength. There is no
reason to expect that the image resolution would affect the conclusions of the study (i.e., human daggers are
stronger than cassowary daggers) in any way.
“We estimated dagger penetration in human joints at 20%...” …but why? You should hold depth constant, not
percentage of length – this is because, to do the same damage to a given joint, you would need to penetrate to the
same depth, not to the same percentage of shaft length. Or if not depth, force, since each individual is limited in
terms of their maximum penetration force.
Author response: For mechanical analysis of objects of different length, in our experience it is standard practice to
test at a set percentage of overall length to help ensure that we are comparing the same relative location. In the
case of stabbing a dagger into some part of a person’s body, there are a plethora of variables (for example, angle
of stab, movement of the victim, force of the stab, and sharpness of the dagger’s tip and blade) that could affect
the depth of penetration. Thus, we concluded that the 20% location would provide an objective, consistent location
along the dagger length. Given the large difference in cross-sectional geometry between the human and cassowary
daggers, which continues along the entire length of the blade, there is no reason to expect that this choice affects
the conclusions of the study (i.e., human daggers are stronger than cassowary daggers).
Section 2.3
You cannot separate trabecular bone from cortical using greyscale values, as the density of individual trabeculi is
the same as cortical bone.
Author response: Due to partial volume averaging, the trabecular bone compartment in whole-bone CT scans
contains voxels at a lower greyscale value than cortical bone. At imaging resolutions used in clinical CT systems,
individual trabeculae are not resolved. Any given voxel in the trabecular bone compartment therefore contains a
portion of bone and a portion of air, which produces overall lower image intensity in the trabecular bone
compartment. This makes it possible to separate the two bone compartments based on the greyscale value.
This idea of “percent volume failure criterion” is misapplied here. Failure in these daggers occurs because of brittle
fracture, not ductile failure, as can be seen by the figure. Therefore, you need to use fracture mechanics to
determine at which point the dagger fails, not von Mises failure criteria. If you do not know where the microcrack
are that will spread and cause failure, you can assume they are equally distributed over the dagger, and once a
certain stress is reach, it will cause a crack in that region to propagate and cause the dagger to fail. Once that
happens, the dagger is broken, full stop, it cannot break more (in the manner discussed in this paper). This criterion
being used assumes some daggers can fail more than others, and the dagger can fail at multiple locations in a single
thrust, which is not true.
Author response: The percentage volume failure criterion was used due to the limitations of macro-scale finite
element analysis of whole bones. Because finite element meshes can contain spurious instances of highly-elevated
stresses due to sharp corners, elongated elements, etc., we typically do not rely on stress values at single, discrete
locations to predict fracture initiation. Instead, we take a more conservative approach by requiring a certain
percentage of total elements to reach the ultimate stress of bone tissue. This does not typically result in a
heterogeneous group of failed elements distributed all over the dagger. Rather, a localized region of elevated
stress near the simulated point of penetration (i.e., the 20% length location) arises. This effect can be seen in Fig. 9.
Once enough elements have exceeded the ultimate stress, we can confidently conclude that the dagger would no
longer be intact, or, as the reviewer stated, “it cannot break more.” Our use of multiple percentage values,
illustrated in Fig. 10, is not intended to suggest that one bone can “break more” than another. Instead, this
approach was used to determine what percentage of failed elements corresponded to the failure force measured
during mechanical testing, thereby providing an objective way of selecting our final failure criterion of 3.3%
volume. This criterion was then used to determine how much force it takes to reach 3.3% failure in each dagger.
Interestingly, in our mechanical test of a cassowary dagger (shown during testing and after failure in Fig. 7), the
dagger actually did fail at multiple locations. Without the use of high-speed cameras, we cannot know which crack
formed first. Beam bending theory, along with the fact that bone tissue is stronger under compression than
tension, would suggest that the fractures initiated on the top (tensile loaded) side of the dagger in cantilever
bending, coinciding with the elevated stress region seen in Fig. 9.
What the author should do is slowly load the model over several substeps and determine the point at which the
maximum stresses in the model exceed their failure criteria, and at that point in time, perhaps compare the forces?
I do not suggest comparing stress magnitude at their final loads, as this would be assuming one dagger can fail
more or less than another.
Author response: The reviewer is correct, and this is in fact what we did in the study. Because our finite element
models are linear, we only need to apply one load (or one step of displacement, if preferred) and obtain the
resulting stress distribution. After the initial model is complete, the final failure load can be determined using only
the results of that initial model. We can determine, via linear scaling of the stresses, the force at which 3.3% of the
elements have exceeded the ultimate stress of bone tissue. These are the finite element failure force values listed in
Table 2 and shown in the leftmost columns of Figure 11 a and b. The additional columns in figure 11,
corresponding to 1%, 3%, and 5% failure, are included to demonstrate that, no matter what percentage we used,
the human daggers would always be predicted to have a higher strength than the cassowary daggers. Again, this
is not intended to suggest that the daggers can continue to break as the force is increased.
I also believe that von Mises failure criterion, which is used for ductile materials, is appropriate for ductile, wet
bone, is not appropriate for brittle, dry bone.
Author response: It is true that von Mises stress is intended for ductile materials, primarily metals. We use it
because it sums up the entire 3D stress tensor into a single value based on the amount of distortional stress
occurring in any given element. For bending of long, slender objects like these daggers, the magnitude of the von
Mises stress is dominated (by far) by the maximum principal stress on the tensile side and the minimum principal
stress on the compressive side. Both of these principal stresses are oriented along the long axis of the dagger (i.e.,
they are normal stresses). Rather than cloud the issue by separating the principal stresses on different sides of the
daggers, we chose von Mises stress as a single value, providing an overall stress magnitude in each element. There
is no reason to expect that using von Mises stress as opposed to maximum and minimum principal stresses would
affect the outcome or conclusions of this study.
Section 2.4
With a sample size of n=5 human daggers, it is impossible to reach significance of p<0.05 using exact p values. Non-
parametric tests or Bayesian statistics should be used instead.
Author response: Thank you for pointing out this important issue. We re-analyzed our data using the non-
parametric Mann-Whitney U Test, and we found significant differences between Imin (p<0.05), finite element
strength in the Imin bending direction (p<0.01), and finite element strength in the Imax direction (p<0.05). The
results are provided in Table 2.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
A Young’s modulus of 24.01 GPa does not correspond well with those other mechanical properties for birds.
Author response: The values of Young’s modulus for ostrich (E = 13.9 GPa) and emu (5.6 GPa to 19.8 GPa) reported
in the literature were for fresh bone. The accepted value for fresh human bone is 17 GPa (Reilly & Burstein, 1975).
The Young’s modulus of dry human bone, on the other hand, has been measured at 27.4 GPa (Yoon & Katz, 1976).
Thus dry human bone has a modulus over 60% higher than fresh human bone. The value for dry cassowary bone
that we measured (24 GPa) is only 22% higher than the top of the range measured for fresh emu bone, leading us
to conclude that the properties of cassowary bone are similar to bone properties of other ratites.
I do not believe the picture of the foot in Fig 3 contributes to this study, nor do I understand how the distribution
of cassowary’s or bone daggers in fig 4 adds to this study, as this study does not discuss the results in terms of
different cultures, population densities, cassowary distribution, etc. within New Guinea. These are pretty pictures
that do not improve the study.
Author response: we have expanded the caption to Fig 3 (now Fig 4) to better highlight the challenge of hunting a
cassowary. The foot is a formidable weapon that they can use to telling effect on humans. We assume that most
readers will be unfamiliar with how cassowaries defend themselves. The map is response to an earlier reviewer
who wanted to know more about the distribution of bone daggers in New Guinea.
Why is Fig 5 needed given Fig 1? Could they not be combined if both are needed?
Author response: In the first review of this manuscript, a reviewer asked whether all of the daggers were intact, or
whether any tips were broken. All of our samples were intact. In other daggers that are broken, it is usually just the
very tip that is missing. This figure helps illustrate that, even if a tip were broken off, it would not affect the results
of our analysis, due to the fact that we are analyzing geometry at the 20% length location.
White on white in Fig 6 makes it difficult to view the 3D models.
Author response: Thank you for pointing this out. We have modified the figure to have a black background, which
should help to see more detail in the models.
Fig 10 looks as if it is a poorly cropped chart. Why are you artificially cutting off the percent volume failed at 10%?
Author response: Since we closely analyzed our data for 1%, 3%, 3.3%, and 5% volume failure criteria, we included
y-axis values up to 10% to illustrate that the overall conclusion (human daggers are stronger than cassowary
daggers), would be maintained even if we selected a higher % volume failure criterion. We had to crop somewhere,
and we deemed it reasonable to crop 10%.
Reviewer: 3
This is an interesting article basically comparing daggers made from human bone with those from cassowary
bones. I enjoyed reading the article, however, I found linking their experiments with social prestige somewhat
lacking. More middle range theory is needed linking the data with models explaining the results. Also, presenting
these results should be made clearer.
It is noted upfront that “daggers shaped from human femora carried greater social prestige”. But their results
argue that human bone daggers are stronger and I would assume better suited for their purpose – i.e. sticking into
people.
As their results show:
1. Mechanics properties of compact bone are similar in the human femur and cassowary tibiotarsus.
2. Human bone dagger is stronger than cassowary.
But they also argue that:
3. A cassowary bone dagger is easily replaced, whereas a human bone dagger is not?
I am not sure about this. There is never a shortage of human bone in many PNG societies. Finding cassowaries on
the other hand was not that easy – that is why they were so valuable as an exchange item. So why assume that
human bone “were also prestigious in part because suitable femora were limited”? I would have thought that
there was an abundant supply of human bone of our species (ancestor or vanquished). It’s the cassowaries that
would have been harder to pin down. The fewness of human bone daggers in museums may more to do with the
reluctance of people to part with them, or more recently the prohibition of the export of human remains?
Author response: We appreciate this point, and we have added clarifying text to indicate that human femora
would be limited to those of respected warriors (not women, children, or “rubbish men”) [see response to Review 1,
#2 above]. As for the ease hunting cassowaries, this would certainly vary with human population density (they
were pretty rare in Yangoru, which had a density on the order of 73/sq.km). For most of New Guinea, however,
where the average density was about 2/sq.km at contact, the literature implies that cassowaries were relatively
common objects of the hunt. It is difficult to be sure, of course: the Japanese army did quite a number on their
stocks in WW2, and the advent of shotguns post-contact has added to pressure on their numbers. The only
quantitative data that we can find is from the Gnau (density about 13.4/sq.km at contact), in an area that hosted
WW2 fighting forces. Lewis 1975:49 recorded kills between November 1968 and August 1969, including wild pigs (n
= 52) and cassowary (n = 18).
4. Their conclusion is: “We conclude by suggesting that people in the Sepik region of New Guinea engineered
human bone daggers to withstand breakage, and that their prevailing motivation was to preserve intact the
embodiment of symbolic strength and social prestige, an outcome that agrees well with the predictions of
signalling theory”. I have no problem in people making human bone daggers because they as a tool are best in
doing the job required of them. If less break then less would be made. If they were more superior to cassowary
bone daggers then no wonder they were not exchanged or ended up in a museum. How is this to do with the
preservation intact of the embodiment of symbolic strength? This is where more discussion is needed, and much
more data from ethnography presented. In particular, more detail on decoration on bone daggers, and the form or
decoration and distribution.
Author response: We are a bit puzzled by this point, as we are arguing that human bone daggers were engineered to
resist breaking because they are the embodiment of symbolic strength. We hope that our new title clarifies our
position, as well as our reorganized/rewritten text in the introduction. Differences in decorative incisions can be
discerned in figure 6, but for the most part we refer the reader to Newton’s 1989 masterpiece on this topic [ref 4]. It is
clear from his analysis that human bone daggers are more prestigious. Lastly, we are confused by the request for
distributional data – is Reviewer 3 asking for data on the distributions of bone daggers? (see figure 5) or perhaps
different decorations? or perhaps different degrees of embellishment? Although these daggers turn up in copious
numbers in museums and elsewhere, there are no systematic studies of their “types”.
in, we thank you for the opportunity to revise and resubmit our manuscript. It has benefitted from the
ew process and we believe that this improved paper will have broad appeal to the readership of Royal
ety Open Science. We believe the topic is likely to generate some modest media attention. Finally, we affirm
this work has not been published or accepted for publication, and is not under consideration for
lication, in another journal or book; that its submission to Royal Society Open Science has been approved by
uthors, and that all persons entitled to authorship have been so named.
erely, yours,
haniel J. Dominy
Society Open
