Revealing the hidden structure of dynamic ecological
networks
Vincent Miele and Catherine Matias
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170251.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170251
Review timeline
Original submission: 22 March 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 May 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 9 May 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170251.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors have taken into account most of the comments they received during the previous
round of reviews. I am pleased to recommend the manuscript for publication in Royal Society
Open Science (RSOS). I only have a few minor comments that should be easy to address:
- RSOS requires that the code used to analyse the data be made available to readers. The dynsbm
R package and both datasets are available online, but I do not think the authors have released the
R code they wrote to analyse the ant's network data and food web data. The code could for
example be available for download on the authors' website or on rpubs.com , and a link should
be included in the manuscript.
- Line 5: delete “naturally”
- Line 7: do not refer to Matias and Miele (2016) as “our recently published […] approach”. Ten
years from now when people read the article, the words "recently published" will no longer make
sense. You could write for example: "Here, we present how the dynamic stochastic block model
approach developed by Matias and Miele (2016) can capture the complexity and dynamics of
these networks".
- Line 12: mention the name of your R package in the abstract. It will increase its visibility on web
search engines.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In this work, the authors propose to apply a method they recently developed and published, to
define groups in temporal networks using two ecological datasets: a network of ant contact and a
freshwater trophic network. The paper is well written and clearly highlights how dynamic SBM
can provide insight on the dynamic of ecological networks, especially regarding the dynamic of
node membership. Although the temporal dynamic of networks is clearly a hot topic in ecology,
the contribution of this work remains limited has the ecological interpretation of their findings is
very limited and there is no addition to the original publication in term of method or result
3
presentation. To me this paper is useful to popularise dynamic SBM among ecologists although to
this end a more ecology orientated journal might be more suited.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170251)
18-Apr-2017
Dear Mr Miele,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Revealing the hidden structure of dynamic ecological
networks") have now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and Associate Editor suggestions which can be found below
(not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 11-May-2017). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data have been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that have been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
4
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170251
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Alice Power
Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
The authors have taken into account most of the comments they received during the previous
round of reviews. I am pleased to recommend the manuscript for publication in Royal Society
Open Science (RSOS). I only have a few minor comments that should be easy to address:
5
- RSOS requires that the code used to analyse the data be made available to readers. The dynsbm
R package and both datasets are available online, but I do not think the authors have released the
R code they wrote to analyse the ant's network data and food web data. The code could for
example be available for download on the authors' website or on rpubs.com , and a link should
be included in the manuscript.
- Line 5: delete “naturally”
- Line 7: do not refer to Matias and Miele (2016) as “our recently published […] approach”. Ten
years from now when people read the article, the words "recently published" will no longer make
sense. You could write for example: "Here, we present how the dynamic stochastic block model
approach developed by Matias and Miele (2016) can capture the complexity and dynamics of
these networks".
- Line 12: mention the name of your R package in the abstract. It will increase its visibility on web
search engines.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
In this work, the authors propose to apply a method they recently developed and published, to
define groups in temporal networks using two ecological datasets: a network of ant contact and a
freshwater trophic network. The paper is well written and clearly highlights how dynamic SBM
can provide insight on the dynamic of ecological networks, especially regarding the dynamic of
node membership. Although the temporal dynamic of networks is clearly a hot topic in ecology,
the contribution of this work remains limited has the ecological interpretation of their findings is
very limited and there is no addition to the original publication in term of method or result
presentation. To me this paper is useful to popularise dynamic SBM among ecologists although to
this end a more ecology orientated journal might be more suited.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170251)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170251.R1)
09-May-2017
Dear Mr Miele,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Revealing the hidden structure of
dynamic ecological networks" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
6
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Associate Editor Comments to Author:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_5
Thank you for the comprehensive revision of your manuscript, which we are happy to accept for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
Appendix A
Point-by-point responses to the two reviewers’ con-
cerns
We answer here to the reviewers. Please note that our corrections and changes
appear in blue in the manuscript.
Reviewer 1
Comments to the Author(s) The authors have taken into account most of the
label_comment_6
comments they received during the previous round of reviews. I am pleased to
recommend the manuscript for publication in Royal Society Open Science (RSOS).
I only have a few minor comments that should be easy to address:
- RSOS requires that the code used to analyse the data be made available to
readers. The dynsbm R package and both datasets are available online, but I do
not think the authors have released the R code they wrote to analyse the ant’s
network data and food web data. The code could for example be available for
download on the authors’ website or on rpubs.com , and a link should be included
in the manuscript.
We now mention in the section ’Data and code accessibility’ that the datasets are
now available inside the R package as R data objects, and that the whole code
to reproduce our analysis is in the ’example’ section of the R help associated to
these data objects. The package is now on CRAN and the new package version
0.4 (with the R data objects) has just been submitted.
- Line 5: delete “naturally”
Done.
- Line 7: do not refer to Matias and Miele (2016) as “our recently published [. . . ]
approach”. Ten years from now when people read the article, the words ”recently
published” will no longer make sense. You could write for example: ”Here, we
present how the dynamic stochastic block model approach developed by Matias
and Miele (2016) can capture the complexity and dynamics of these networks”.
The reviewer is right. We modified the text accordingly.
- Line 12: mention the name of your R package in the abstract. It will increase its
visibility on web search engines.
Done.
Reviewer 2
Comments to the Author(s) In this work, the authors propose to apply a method
label_comment_7
they recently developed and published, to define groups in temporal networks using
two ecological datasets: a network of ant contact and a freshwater trophic network.
The paper is well written and clearly highlights how dynamic SBM can provide
insight on the dynamic of ecological networks, especially regarding the dynamic
of node membership. Although the temporal dynamic of networks is clearly a hot
topic in ecology, the contribution of this work remains limited has the ecological
interpretation of their findings is very limited and there is no addition to the
original publication in term of method or result presentation. To me this paper is
useful to popularise dynamic SBM among ecologists although to this end a more
ecology orientated journal might be more suited.
We still think that Royal Society Open Science is suitable to popularize our ap-
proach among ecologists and we confirm our choice.
Society Open
