Progressive ontogenetic niche shift over the prolonged
immaturity period of wandering albatrosses
Alice Carravieri, Henri Weimerskirch, Paco Bustamante and Yves Cherel
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 171039.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171039
Review timeline
Original submission: 2 August 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 7 September 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 September 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171039.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The study investigates a little-known topic of age-related changes in foraging niche of immature
individuals of a seabird predator with a prolonged immature period, using carbon and nitrogen
isotopic values and mercury levels as response variables of several models, to successfully test
the 'ontogenic niche shift hypothesis'.
The authors have made a nice work in replying positively to the majority of the comments from
both reviewers, which evidently increased the clarity and overall quality of the manuscript.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This study investigates age-related changes in foraging niche of immature individuals in a long-
lived seabird with a prolonged immature period, the wandering albatross, using carbon and
nitrogen stable isotopes and mercury concentration in blood and feathers. The authors have
revised the manuscript from a previous submission and have addressed my main concerns by
toning down their claims, improving the analysis of individual variation, and providing more
information on the statistical analyses. The revised manuscript is better and clearer. I still have
one suggestion for improvement, which I think is very important for the clarity of the findings.
It was not clear in the original manuscript why, despite the findings only showing an age-related
niche shift during the period where immatures are central foragers around the colony and not
during the rest of the year, they still supported the ONSH. This is a critical point, and the authors
gave a satisfactory reply by explaining how competition may play an important role in driving
the ONSH, and as competition should be much higher around the colony, it could explain why it
is only visible in blood (when birds are around the colony) but not feathers (during the moulting
period). However they have only added a very short half-sentence to explain this in the
manuscript, which does not clarify these points enough. Therefore I would like the authors to
develop these points in the discussion in a similar way to their response to my comment (as far as
3
I know the word restriction is not as strict in this journal so it should not be a problem, but even if
it is I think it is essential to explain this properly in the manuscript).
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171039)
05-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Carravieri
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171039 entitled
"Progressive ontogenetic niche shift over the prolonged immaturity period of wandering
albatrosses" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171039
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
4
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 14-Sep-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The study investigates a little-known topic of age-related changes in foraging niche of immature
individuals of a seabird predator with a prolonged immature period, using carbon and nitrogen
isotopic values and mercury levels as response variables of several models, to successfully test
the 'ontogenic niche shift hypothesis'.
The authors have made a nice work in replying positively to the majority of the comments from
both reviewers, which evidently increased the clarity and overall quality of the manuscript.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This study investigates age-related changes in foraging niche of immature individuals in a long-
lived seabird with a prolonged immature period, the wandering albatross, using carbon and
nitrogen stable isotopes and mercury concentration in blood and feathers. The authors have
revised the manuscript from a previous submission and have addressed my main concerns by
toning down their claims, improving the analysis of individual variation, and providing more
information on the statistical analyses. The revised manuscript is better and clearer. I still have
one suggestion for improvement, which I think is very important for the clarity of the findings.
It was not clear in the original manuscript why, despite the findings only showing an age-related
niche shift during the period where immatures are central foragers around the colony and not
during the rest of the year, they still supported the ONSH. This is a critical point, and the authors
gave a satisfactory reply by explaining how competition may play an important role in driving
the ONSH, and as competition should be much higher around the colony, it could explain why it
is only visible in blood (when birds are around the colony) but not feathers (during the moulting
6
period). However they have only added a very short half-sentence to explain this in the
manuscript, which does not clarify these points enough. Therefore I would like the authors to
develop these points in the discussion in a similar way to their response to my comment (as far as
I know the word restriction is not as strict in this journal so it should not be a problem, but even if
it is I think it is essential to explain this properly in the manuscript).
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171039)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171039.R1)
08-Sep-2017
Dear Dr Carravieri,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Progressive ontogenetic niche shift
over the prolonged immaturity period of wandering albatrosses" is now accepted for publication
in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
***************************
Appendix A
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The study investigates a little-known topic of age-related changes in foraging niche of immature
ndividuals of a seabird predator with a prolonged immature period, using carbon and nitrogen
sotopic values and mercury levels as response variables of several models, to successfully test the
ontogenic niche shift hypothesis'.
The authors have made a nice work in replying positively to the majority of the comments from both
eviewers, which evidently increased the clarity and overall quality of the manuscript.
REPLY. We thank the reviewer for their positive comments about the revision.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This study investigates age-related changes in foraging niche of immature individuals in a long-lived
eabird with a prolonged immature period, the wandering albatross, using carbon and nitrogen
table isotopes and mercury concentration in blood and feathers. The authors have revised the
manuscript from a previous submission and have addressed my main concerns by toning down their
claims, improving the analysis of individual variation, and providing more information on the
tatistical analyses. The revised manuscript is better and clearer. I still have one suggestion for
mprovement, which I think is very important for the clarity of the findings.
t was not clear in the original manuscript why, despite the findings only showing an age-related
niche shift during the period where immatures are central foragers around the colony and not during
he rest of the year, they still supported the ONSH. This is a critical point, and the authors gave a
atisfactory reply by explaining how competition may play an important role in driving the ONSH, and
as competition should be much higher around the colony, it could explain why it is only visible in
blood (when birds are around the colony) but not feathers (during the moulting period). However
hey have only added a very short half-sentence to explain this in the manuscript, which does not
clarify these points enough. Therefore I would like the authors to develop these points in the
discussion in a similar way to their response to my comment (as far as I know the word restriction is
not as strict in this journal so it should not be a problem, but even if it is I think it is essential to
explain this properly in the manuscript).
REPLY. We agree with the referee and have added the following to the discussion:
“The age-related niche shift was evident in blood (central-place foraging niche), but not in feathers
moulting niche), but this is not in opposition with the progressive ontogenetic niche shift hypothesis,
because immatures are not exposed to the same constraints when they are central-place foragers
and when they moult. Indeed, when not bound to the colony, both juveniles [13] and adults [14]
disperse over huge distances, with high between-individual variation in oceanic destinations, which
ikely weakens intra-specific competition. The higher competition pressure around the breeding
colony likely drives the ontogenetic niche shift more clearly than during moult.”
Society Open
