Forward flight of birds revisited. Part 1: aerodynamics and
performance
G. Iosilevskii
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140248.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140248
Review timeline
Original submission: 20 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 16 September 2014 appears in chronological order.
Note: This article was transferred from another Royal Society journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140248.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation
Accept as is.
Comments to the Author(s)
I congratulate the author again up this work, and am satisfied that all of the points that I raised
on the previous submitted version have been addressed (as well as those raised by Reviewer 1).
The results at Eqs. 29-37 should prove very useful for the field of flapping flight research, and I
look forward to being able to use them in my own research once the manuscript is published.
label_end_comment
Decision letter
09-Sep-2014
Dear Professor Iosilevskii,
On behalf of the Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-140248 entitled
"FORWARD FLIGHT OF BIRDS REVISITED. PART 1: AERODYNAMICS AND
PERFORMANCE" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science. I must now
ask you to upload your final files to the submission site for final acceptance.
Please ensure you pay close attention to the list of items required below. Please upload your files
within the next 7 days. When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document"
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
include your contact details for journalists.
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
