A synthetic, catalytic and theoretical investigation of an
unsymmetrical SCN pincer palladacycle
Gavin W. Roffe, Sarote Boonseng, Christine B. Baltus, Simon J. Coles, Iain J. Day,
Rhiannon N. Jones, Neil J. Press, Mario Ruiz, Graham J. Tizzard, Hazel Cox and John
Spencer
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150656.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150656
Review timeline
Original submission: 1 December 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 18 February 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 1 March 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 2 March 2016
Review History
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150656)
09-Feb-2016
Dear Dr Spencer:
Title: A Synthetic, Catalytic and Theoretical Investigation of an Unsymmetrical SCN Pincer
Palladacycle
Manuscript ID: RSOS-150656
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests. Please mention that Hazel Cox is an Associate Editor for the journal.
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 18-Feb-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Liisa Niitsoo
Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
Royal Society of Chemistry
Email: chemistryopenscience@rsc.org
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 434524
3
On behalf of the Subject Editor Dr Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor
Dr Catherine Cazin.
*************************************
Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
Please address all reviewers' comments.
Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
**************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
It is reported a very nice, well planned, executed and discussed work on the synthesis and
characterization of pincer type palladacycles and their use as catalyst precursor for Suzuki
coupling reactions. As opposed to many works on the synthesis and use of palladacycles this
contribution brings new insights for the design and synthesis of more stable and efficient non-
symmetrical pincer palladacycles that have many applications not only in catalysis nut also for
photo and biomedical areas. In particular the developed ligand synthesis can be used of other
metallaycles such as Pt, Ru and Ir. There are some minor corrections that can be easy performed
during the editorial process. This is not a simple routine work.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript clearly describes the synthesis and characterisation of some new palladacycle
complexes, and their deployment in catalytic reactions. The synthetic steps are reported in
sufficient clarity and detail to allow any synthetic chemist to reproduce the reactions. All
compounds are characterised using appropriate methods (NMR, MS for organics; NMR, MS,
CHN, X-ray for organometallics). The data support the claims made by the authors, and this
paper should be published.
My own background is mainly synthetic/physical organic chemistry with the odd bit of dabbling
with DFT, so I'm not best placed to review the computational aspects, but it all seems to make
sense.
My only comments are closer to suggestions for the way in which the manuscript might be
improved slightly.
(i) When determining conversions (Table 2, etc.) was the GC calibrated? Are these simply ratio of
peak areas, or are they truly conversions?
(ii) While the Pd(II) palladacycle is stable to air, the intermediates on the catalytic cycle might not
be. I think it would be useful and informative to run at least one reaction under Ar or N2 for
comparison.
(iii) The profile in Fig 4 suggests that maximum conversion might be reached when the catalyst
has decomposed. A profile at a lower catalyst loading would be informative - if the palladacycle
is indeed a reservoir of slow-forming Pd(0) might we expect the same initial rate of catalysis, but
stopping at a lower conversion?
4
(iv) Crystal structures for 4b and 5 are presented. Were NMR analyses of the single crystals
attempted, to ensure that the crystals represent the bulk? Were the crystal structures obtained
from different crystals grown from the same batch of material?
Comments regarding ESM: The data is provided in quite a clear format. I would encourage the
authors to consider providing the NMR data in landscape format with slightly bolder lines, if
possible, as it would make the data easier to see, especially when there are a couple of large
signals and the smaller ones are harder to see.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150656)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150656.R1)
01-Mar-2016
Dear Dr Spencer:
Title: A Synthetic, Catalytic and Theoretical Investigation of an Unsymmetrical SCN Pincer
Palladacycle
Manuscript ID: RSOS-150656.R1
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript has
been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science. Before submitting the final files,
please make the minor correction to the funding statement as indicated below:
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author. This should be separate to the Acknowledgements.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 10-Mar-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
5
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Siobhán
Dr Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
Royal Society of Chemistry
+44 1223 432114
On behalf of the Subject Editor Dr Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Catherine Cazin.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150656)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150656.R2)
02-Mar-2016
Dear Dr Spencer,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "A Synthetic, Catalytic and Theoretical
Investigation of an Unsymmetrical SCN Pincer Palladacycle" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
6
You can expect to receive a proof of your article within approximately 10 days. Please contact the
editorial office (matthew.allinson@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are likely to be away
from e-mail contact during that period. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule,
if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Dr Siobhan Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society of Chemistry
chemistryopenscience@rsc.org
on behalf of
Dr Matthew Allinson
matthew.allinson@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Dear Liisa/Catherine
Reviewer 1 had little to point out.
We have added the competing interests section re: Hazel Cox.
Responses to referee 2 comments
(i) When determining conversions (Table 2, etc.) was the GC calibrated? Are these
simply ratio of peak areas, or are they truly conversions?
They are a ratio of peak areas, however we confirmed this via 1H NMR studies, revealing
concurrent results for entry 1 of Table 3. This is in addition to isolated yields obtained for
pure samples obtained using another catalyst. We have included the crude 1H NMR in the
supplementary information (Figure 17) to assist the readers, and added the following section
to the main text.
All reactions were monitored via GC with conversions of starting material to product quoted.
To validate GC conversions, in a related investigation, biaryl products have been isolated
using related palladacycles in >70 % yield, after purification,[38] and entry 1 confirmed via
1
H NMR conversions.
(ii) While the Pd(II) palladacycle is stable to air, the intermediates on the catalytic
cycle might not be. I think it would be useful and informative to run at least one
reaction under Ar or N2 for comparison.
Upon this suggestion we have run some of the catalyst loading experiments under Ar,
revealing significantly higher conversion that the 4 % achieved for 0.001 mol% in entry 5 in
Table 2 achieved in air. However unfortunately, concurrent results could not be obtained at
this very low catalyst loading. Therefore we have included the following text into the
manuscript to add this information.
It was also found that, when performed under an argon atmosphere, lower catalyst loadings
were possible, achieving conversions >50 % with catalyst loadings as low as 0.0001 mol%, however
due to the very low catalyst loadings, concurrent results could not be obtained.
(iii) The profile in Fig 4 suggests that maximum conversion might be reached when
the catalyst has decomposed. A profile at a lower catalyst loading would be
informative - if the palladacycle is indeed a reservoir of slow-forming Pd(0)
conversion?
After the initial suggestion we went back to repeat the catalysis at lower catalyst loadings
under Ar, however due to the lack of reproducible results (we had difficulty in titrating such a
low concentration of Pd catalyst from a stock solution) this was not possible.
(iv) Crystal structures for 4b and 5 are presented. Were NMR analyses of the single
crystals attempted, to ensure that the crystals represent the bulk? Were the
crystal structures obtained from different crystals grown from the same batch of
material?
For the crystalline material, bulk sample was analysed by 1H, 13C, where appropriate 19F
NMR and by CHN and HRMS analysis prior to submission for X-ray diffraction, which
confirmed the high purity and the expected structure of bulk crystalline material, and a
suitable crystal was then found to diffract. However, we did not take the actual crystal studied
by X-ray as it was covered in silicone grease.
Comments regarding ESM: The data is provided in quite a clear format. I would
encourage the authors to consider providing the NMR data in landscape format with
slightly bolder lines, if possible, as it would make the data easier to see, especially when
there are a couple of large signals and the smaller ones are harder to see.
We have altered the ESM so that as suggested, the NMRs are provided in a landscape format,
and increased in size for ease to the reader.
Many thanks
John
pendix B
ny thanks, we have now separated the funding and acknowledgments section as per
r instructions, as below:
nding
would like to thank the University of Sussex for a studentship (GWR); Novartis and the
versity of Greenwich for a fully funded scholarship (CBB); and the Royal Thai
vernment for a fully funded scholarship (SB).
nowledgements
would like to thank Dr Alaa Abdul-Sada (University of Sussex) and the EPSRC National
ss Spectrometry Service (University of Swansea) for MS measurements. We would also
to thank the National Crystallography Centre (University of Southampton) for running
solving X-ray crystal structures, Christopher Dadswell (University of Sussex) for the
port and use of the GC equipment, and Johnson Matthey for the loan of palladium salts.
e authors would like to acknowledge the use of the EPSRC UK National Service for
mputational Chemistry Software (NSCCS) at Imperial College London in carrying out this
rk.
Society Open
