Bare carbon electrodes as simple and efficient sensors for
the quantification of caffeine in commercial beverages
Luca Redivo, Miroslav Stredanský, Elisabetta De Angelis, Luciano Navarini, Marina
Resmini and Lubomír Švorc
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172146.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172146
Review timeline
Original submission: 8 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 27 February 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 27 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172146.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Hayriye Eda Kara)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
I read the manuscript carefully. It was well design and organized. All corrections were done in
the text. In my opinion it can be acceptable as it stands.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript reported a simple and efficient method for the quantification of caffeine in
commercial beverages based on bare carbon electrodes. The results are interesting, and
promising. Therefore, the manuscript could be published after minor revision.
1) Increases in H2SO4 concentration resulted in a higher peak for CAF, however increase
in the background current was also observed. CV of background signal with high concentration
of H2SO4 should be provided. Signal-to-Noise ratio at different concentration of H2SO4 should
be provided.
2) The author claimed that H2SO4 provided much better performance than HNO3 and HClO4.
The results are interesting, but should be explained.
3) The author claimed that the proposed method has long-term stability, however the data was
not provided.
4) The surface morphology of the carbon electrode should be provided before and after the test,
since the H2SO4 may oxidize the carbon electrode when scanning in high positive potential.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172146)
09-Feb-2018
Dear Mr Redivo:
Title: Bare carbon electrodes as simple and efficient sensors for the quantification of caffeine in
commercial beverages
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172146
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
4
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172146
• Competing interests
Please include a Competing Interests section after your main text declaring any financial or non-
financial competing interests. If you have no competing interests please state 'I/we have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
Please include an Authors' Contributions section at the end of your main text detailing the
contribution of each author. All authors should have read and approved the manuscript before
submission and this should be stated in the Authors' Contributions section.
The list of Authors should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to
conception and design, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting
the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the
version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please include a funding section after your main text which lists the source of funding for each
author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 18-Feb-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
5
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace.
**********************************************
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
I read the manuscript carefully. It was well design and organized. All corrections were done in
the text. In my opinion it can be acceptable as it stands.
6
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
The manuscript reported a simple and efficient method for the quantification of caffeine in
commercial beverages based on bare carbon electrodes. The results are interesting, and
promising. Therefore, the manuscript could be published after minor revision.
1) Increases in H2SO4 concentration resulted in a higher peak for CAF, however increase
in the background current was also observed. CV of background signal with high concentration
of H2SO4 should be provided. Signal-to-Noise ratio at different concentration of H2SO4 should
be provided.
2) The author claimed that H2SO4 provided much better performance than HNO3 and HClO4.
The results are interesting, but should be explained.
3) The author claimed that the proposed method has long-term stability, however the data was
not provided.
4) The surface morphology of the carbon electrode should be provided before and after the test,
since the H2SO4 may oxidize the carbon electrode when scanning in high positive potential.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172146)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-172146.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
7
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The authors have addressed all the Reviewer's comments, and therefore I recommend the
acceptance of the manuscript.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172146.R1)
27-Mar-2018
Dear Mr Redivo:
Title: Bare carbon electrodes as simple and efficient sensors for the quantification of caffeine in
commercial beverages
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172146.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Dunn.
********
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_6
(There are no comments.)
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_7
(There are no comments.)
*********
8
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_8
The authors have addressed all the Reviewer's comments, and therefore I recommend the
acceptance of the manuscript .
Appendix A
Response to Referee’s comments
The authors are grateful to the referees for their comments and suggestions. Here below our
responses to the queries. The changes implemented in the new manuscript are reported in blue italic.
Referee 2
1) Increases in H2SO4 concentration resulted in a higher peak for CAF, however increase in the
background current was also observed. CV of background signal with high concentration of H2SO4
should be provided. Signal-to-Noise ratio at different concentration of H2SO4 should be provided.
The suggestions of the referee were followed, and a table containing the signal to noise (S/N) ratio for
different sulfuric acid concentrations was added in the ESI file, together with a figure of the CVs of the
background at different H2SO4 concentration. The main manuscript was amended with the insertion
of the paragraph reported here below.
Sulphuric acid was used at 0.1 M as the optimal concentration, as it gave the highest S/N ratio (data
shown in table S1 and fig S4). In addition, at high acid concentration (i.e. 1 M and 0.5 M) a broad band
was observed in the direct scan at 1.6 V (figure S4). This signal is likely due to the oxidation of carbon
atoms from the GCE surface in highly acidic conditions.
Table S1. S/N ratio at different sulphuric acid concentrations. The intensity at the maximum of caffeine oxidation peak was
considered for evaluation of the ratio. All experiments were performed using CV with a scan rate of 100 mV/s for a caffeine
concentration of 0.546·mM.
H2SO4 concentration (M) S/N ratio
0.01 2.84
0.05 3.34
0.1 3.67
0.5 3.26
1 2.38
Figure S4. Cyclic voltammograms of different concentrations of H2SO4 in milli-Q water, all voltammograms were recorded
with a scan rate of 100 mV/s. Black line H2SO4 0.01 M, red line H2SO4 0.05 M, green line H2SO4 0.1 M, navy-blue line H2SO4
0.5 M, light blue line H2SO4 1 M.
2) The author claimed that H2SO4 provided much better performance than HNO3 and HClO4. The
results are interesting, but should be explained.
This is indeed an interesting observation that incidentally has been reported very recently by another
group using a different type of electrode. The authors have added a new figure in the ESI, which shows
a direct comparison of the profiles obtained with sulfuric acid, nitric acid and perchloric acid all at 0.1
M concentration. The similarity of data between nitric acid and perchloric acid, both monoprotic acids,
supports the explanation that the difference is likely to be the result of changes in the ionic strength.
This is in agreement with the data reported by Chalupczok et al. A new paragraph has been added to
the main manuscript, including the most recent reference, as well as the additional figures in the ESI.
Hereafter the new paragraph and figure.
When different acids were evaluated all at the same concentration of 0.1M, perchloric and nitric acids
performed similarly while in the case of sulfuric acid a narrower and sharper peak was obtained
together with a higher S/N ratio (fig S3 supporting material). A possible explanation for the difference
maybe found in the variation in ionic strength between the monoprotic acids and the diprotic sulfuric
acid. A similar observation has been reported recently by Chalupczok S. et al. [1], using RuO2 who
conclude that changes in ionic strength have significant impact even when concentrations and pHs of
the solutions are the same.
Fig. S3. Comparison of the three different acids at the same molar concentration (0.1 M) for
electrochemical oxidation of 0.546·mM CAF solution on GCE using CV (scan rate of 100 mV/s). Red
line H2SO4 (0.1M), green line HClO4 (0.1M), Blue line HNO3 (0.1M).
3)The author claimed that the proposed method has long-term stability, however the data was not
provided.
4) The surface morphology of the carbon electrode should be provided before and after the test,
since the H2SO4 may oxidize the carbon electrode when scanning in high positive potential.
The authors are replying to these two comments in the same paragraph as they believe the two
things are linked.
The reviewer correctly pointed out that the highly acidic condition and positive potential can lead to
a change in the surface of GCE. However, considering that no signals due to the oxidation of glassy
carbon were recorded and long anodic pre-treatments were not applied, no further experiments were
performed studying the change in the electrode’s surface. In addition, the electrode was employed
for 6 months for the analysis of several caffeinated beverages without recording any differences in its
performance. Therefore, the long-term stability observed confirmed that the change in the electrode
morphology, if occurring at all, was in fact negligible. The authors believe that this is probably due to
the low concentration of acids used and the absence of any pre-treatments.
The following paragraph was added in the main manuscript, also adding additional references from
literature reporting the oxidation of glassy carbon electrodes when high potential and high
concentration of sulfuric acids are employed.
Previous works in the literature [2–4] have reported that a change in morphology of glassy carbon can
be observed when sulfuric acid is employed and long electrochemical pre-treatments applied.
However, in this proposed work, no long pre-treatments were done and no electrochemical signals of
the oxidation of glassy carbon were recorded, which suggest that oxidation of the glassy carbon
electrode is negligible under the experimental conditions used for this work.
The following paragraph was added to give more information about the long-term stability observed.
Furthermore, the electrode-based sensor has been used regularly over a period of several months for
the quantification of caffeine content in coffee samples, and no significant variations in its performance
were observed, suggesting that in the conditions employed any changes in the morphology and
properties of the glassy carbon electrode are not significant.
References
1. Chalupczok S, Kurzweil P, Hartmann H. 2018 Impact of Various Acids and Bases on the
Voltammetric Responce of Platinum Group Metal Oxides. Int. J. Electrochem. 2018.
(doi:doi.org/10.1155/2018/1697956 Research)
2. Dordevic JS, Kalijadis AM, Kumric KR, Jovanovic ZM, Lauševic Z V., Trtic-Petrovic TM. 2012
Glassy carbon and boron doped glassy carbon electrodes for voltammetric determination of
linuron herbicide in the selected samples. Cent. Eur. J. Chem. 10, 1271–1279.
(doi:10.2478/s11532-012-0042-1)
3. Truc NM, Mortensen J, Ba N, Anh H. 2008 Electrochemical Preanodization of Glassy Carbon
Electrode and Application To Determine Chloramphenicol. Malaysian J. Anal. Sci. 12, 586–592.
4. Yi Y, Weinberg G, Prenzel M, Greiner M, Heumann S, Becker S, Schlögl R. 2017 Electrochemical
corrosion of a glassy carbon electrode. Catal. Today 295, 32–40.
(doi:10.1016/j.cattod.2017.07.013)
Society Open
