Fixation of CO2 along with bromopyridines on a silver
electrode
Yingtian Zhang, Shuxian Yu, Peipei Luo, Shisong Xu, Xianxi Zhang, Huawei Zhou, Jiyuan
Du, Jie Yang, Nana Xin, Yuxia Kong, Junhai Liu, Baoli Chen and Jiaxing Lu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180897.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180897
Review timeline
Original submission: 5 June 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 5 July 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 11 July 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180897.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This article shows a new method for the dehalogenation carboxylation of bromopyridines.
Moderate yields of products can be obtained. The work on the cyclic voltammogram section in
the article is well done. It may be appropriate to publish in the Royal Society Open Science with
some minor changes.
1. The authors only tried DMF and MeCN in the solvent optimization process. More solvents
such as THF, MeOH and DMSO etc. could be included.
2. According to the author's description in the article, water has a greater impact on the reaction,
and the author should give the corresponding data. In addition, I wonder to know the specific
steps of the final acidification.
3. Whether the final carboxylic acid product is a pure product or a mixture of three products, the
authors should give the corresponding NMR data to prove it.
4. This related work (Journal of the Electrochemical Society, 163(3), H240-H242; 2016) should be
cited.
5. The article only tried brominated products. What is the result of chloropyridine?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This paper describes an electrochemical method for the preparation of picolinic acids via CO2
fixation on bromopyridines. Various operational parameters affecting the acid yield have been
systematically investigated. In particular, it is confirmed that Ag has a remarkable electrocatalytic
activity for the activation of the carbon-bromine bond in brompyridines towards carboxylation
3
and the best results are obtained in DMF. The paper is recommendable for publication provided
that the Authors address the following points.
1) Page 5, line 6 from bottom: authors state that after a certain amount of charge was passed
through the cell the current was switched off and the carboxylation product was obtained
through the ordinary work-up of the electrolysed solution. A brief description of this “ordinary”
work-up procedure should be provided.
2) Comparing the picolinic acid yields in MeCN and DMF, authors note that
hydrodehalogenation is more favoured than carboxylation in MeCN, while the opposite is true in
DMF, because MeCN is a much better proton donor than DMF. At page 8, first line, they state, “in
addition, DMF is also a strong alkaline solvent, which facilitates the dissolution of acidic
products”. I cannot agree with this second observation. DMF is a good solvent; it is neither an
acid nor a base.
3) Page 8, line 9 from top: Authors state, “Therefore, combining the electrolysis results and the
solubility of the solvent itself, the most suitable solvent in this study is DMF”. “The solubility of
the solvent itself” does not make any sense. Perhaps authors mean the solubility limit of reagent
or product. Please rephrase it.
4) Tables 1 and 2 report the yield of picolinic acid. Although authors stated in the experimental
section (page 5) how the yield was calculated, it would be helpful to add a footnote in the table to
define the yield as (moles of 2a obtained/moles of starting 1). In addition, a column indicating
reagent conversion is needed to better evaluate the performance of the process.
5) The explanation reported in page 9 to rationalize the role tetraalkylammonium salts used as
background electrolyte is hardly acceptable. First, there is no evidence for the formation of TRA-
RCO2 ion pair in DMF. Ion pairs are not usually formed in highly polar solvents such as DMF.
Authors cite two papers for carboxylate stabilization through ion-paring with
tetraalkylammonium cations, but neither paper reports a clear evidence of the existence of such
ion pairs. Reference 29 assumes carboxylate stabilization by TRA+ without proving it, whereas
reference 47 describes electrochemical preparation of tetraalkylammonium salts (not to be
confused with ion pairs). Second, the statement, “Further, TEA+ is found much easier to be
reduced than TBA+ [48]” is false. In ref. 48, Dahm and Peters report the electrochemical reduction
mechanism of TEABF4 and TBABF4 in DMF. They show that while reduction of the two
tetraalkylammonium cations requires similar potentials (-2.20 - -2.30 V vs Cd(Hg)/CdCl2), their
role as a proton donor via Hoffman elimination strongly depends on the length of the alkyl chain.
TEA+ is a much better proton donor than TBA+. For that reason, the electrocarboxylation process
reported here gives higher acid yields in the presence of TBA+ than TEA+. The whole discussion
in page 9 is based on a wrong assumption that TEA+ is much more easily reduced than TBA+.
Authors should read carefully the paper by Dahm and Peters and accordingly discuss the role of
TRA+ on the basis of competition between protonation and carboxylation and the role of TRA+
as a proton donor.
6) Page 12, line 5 from bottom: Authors state, “In addition, the peak potentials of
o-bromopyridine and m-bromopyridine are very close, except that the peak current of
m-bromopyridine is higher than that of o-bromopyridine, and this may be due to the fact that
the m-bromopyridine is more active than o-bromopyridine on the electrode.” This is not correct.
In voltammetry, you accelerate the rate of electron transfer up to a maximum value (after the
peak potential) limited by mass transfer. Therefore, the peak current depends on the diffusion
coefficient of the reagent rather than on its reactivity at the electrode. The observed slight
differences in peak currents (Fig. 3) are due to different diffusion coefficients of bromopyridines.
4
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180897.R0)
27-Jun-2018
Dear Dr Chen:
Title: Fixation of CO<sub>2</sub> along with bromopyridines on a silver electrode
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180897
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 06-Jul-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
5
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Harned.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
I agree with the referees, that the work in this manuscript is interesting and will be a nice
addition to the literature. The authors should prepare a revised manuscript that takes into
account the comments and criticisms raised by the reviewers.
6
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This article shows a new method for the dehalogenation carboxylation of bromopyridines.
Moderate yields of products can be obtained. The work on the cyclic voltammogram section in
the article is well done. It may be appropriate to publish in the Royal Society Open Science with
some minor changes.
1. The authors only tried DMF and MeCN in the solvent optimization process. More solvents
such as THF, MeOH and DMSO etc. could be included.
2. According to the author's description in the article, water has a greater impact on the reaction,
and the author should give the corresponding data. In addition, I wonder to know the specific
steps of the final acidification.
3. Whether the final carboxylic acid product is a pure product or a mixture of three products, the
authors should give the corresponding NMR data to prove it.
4. This related work (Journal of the Electrochemical Society, 163(3), H240-H242; 2016) should be
cited.
5. The article only tried brominated products. What is the result of chloropyridine?
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper describes an electrochemical method for the preparation of picolinic acids via CO2
fixation on bromopyridines. Various operational parameters affecting the acid yield have been
systematically investigated. In particular, it is confirmed that Ag has a remarkable electrocatalytic
activity for the activation of the carbon-bromine bond in brompyridines towards carboxylation
and the best results are obtained in DMF. The paper is recommendable for publication provided
that the Authors address the following points.
1) Page 5, line 6 from bottom: authors state that after a certain amount of charge was passed
through the cell the current was switched off and the carboxylation product was obtained
through the ordinary work-up of the electrolysed solution. A brief description of this “ordinary”
work-up procedure should be provided.
2) Comparing the picolinic acid yields in MeCN and DMF, authors note that
hydrodehalogenation is more favoured than carboxylation in MeCN, while the opposite is true in
DMF, because MeCN is a much better proton donor than DMF. At page 8, first line, they state, “in
addition, DMF is also a strong alkaline solvent, which facilitates the dissolution of acidic
products”. I cannot agree with this second observation. DMF is a good solvent; it is neither an
acid nor a base.
3) Page 8, line 9 from top: Authors state, “Therefore, combining the electrolysis results and the
solubility of the solvent itself, the most suitable solvent in this study is DMF”. “The solubility of
the solvent itself” does not make any sense. Perhaps authors mean the solubility limit of reagent
or product. Please rephrase it.
7
4) Tables 1 and 2 report the yield of picolinic acid. Although authors stated in the experimental
section (page 5) how the yield was calculated, it would be helpful to add a footnote in the table to
define the yield as (moles of 2a obtained/moles of starting 1). In addition, a column indicating
reagent conversion is needed to better evaluate the performance of the process.
5) The explanation reported in page 9 to rationalize the role tetraalkylammonium salts used as
background electrolyte is hardly acceptable. First, there is no evidence for the formation of TRA-
RCO2 ion pair in DMF. Ion pairs are not usually formed in highly polar solvents such as DMF.
Authors cite two papers for carboxylate stabilization through ion-paring with
tetraalkylammonium cations, but neither paper reports a clear evidence of the existence of such
ion pairs. Reference 29 assumes carboxylate stabilization by TRA+ without proving it, whereas
reference 47 describes electrochemical preparation of tetraalkylammonium salts (not to be
confused with ion pairs). Second, the statement, “Further, TEA+ is found much easier to be
reduced than TBA+ [48]” is false. In ref. 48, Dahm and Peters report the electrochemical reduction
mechanism of TEABF4 and TBABF4 in DMF. They show that while reduction of the two
tetraalkylammonium cations requires similar potentials (-2.20 - -2.30 V vs Cd(Hg)/CdCl2), their
role as a proton donor via Hoffman elimination strongly depends on the length of the alkyl chain.
TEA+ is a much better proton donor than TBA+. For that reason, the electrocarboxylation process
reported here gives higher acid yields in the presence of TBA+ than TEA+. The whole discussion
in page 9 is based on a wrong assumption that TEA+ is much more easily reduced than TBA+.
Authors should read carefully the paper by Dahm and Peters and accordingly discuss the role of
TRA+ on the basis of competition between protonation and carboxylation and the role of TRA+
as a proton donor.
6) Page 12, line 5 from bottom: Authors state, “In addition, the peak potentials of
o-bromopyridine and m-bromopyridine are very close, except that the peak current of
m-bromopyridine is higher than that of o-bromopyridine, and this may be due to the fact that
the m-bromopyridine is more active than o-bromopyridine on the electrode.” This is not correct.
In voltammetry, you accelerate the rate of electron transfer up to a maximum value (after the
peak potential) limited by mass transfer. Therefore, the peak current depends on the diffusion
coefficient of the reagent rather than on its reactivity at the electrode. The observed slight
differences in peak currents (Fig. 3) are due to different diffusion coefficients of bromopyridines.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180897.R0)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180897.R1)
11-Jul-2018
Dear Dr Chen:
Title: Fixation of CO<sub>2</sub> along with bromopyridines on a silver electrode
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180897.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
8
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Harned.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
The authors have done an excellent job responding to the concerns raised by the previous review.
*********
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Appendix A
List of Responses
Dear Editors:
Thank you for your letter and comments concerning our manuscript
entitled "Fixation of CO2 along with bromopyridines on a silver
electrode". (ID: RSOS-180897). Those comments are all valuable and
very helpful for revising and improving our paper. We have studied
comments carefully and have made correction which we hope meet with
approval. Revised portion are marked in red in the paper. The main
corrections in the paper and the responds to the editor’s comments are
as following:
Responds to the editor’s comments:
Reviewer #1:
1. The authors only tried DMF and MeCN in the solvent optimization
process. More solvents such as THF, MeOH and DMSO etc. could be
included.
Response: Considering the Reviewer’s suggestion, we have investigated
the electrocarboxylation of 1a in solvent of THF, MeOH or DMSO
(seen Table S1 below or of the modified Electronic Supplementary
Materials). Table S1 and Table 1 (seen in the modified manuscript entry
1and entry 2) show that the 2a’s yield in DMF (55.0%) is much higher
than that in MeCN (16.4%), THF (---), MeOH (1.9%) and DMSO (---).
1) Since MeOH is a protic solvent, hydrodehalogenation is
significantly more favoured than carboxylation in MeOH, it is generally
not recommended to use MeOH as the solvent for the
electrocarboxylation reaction of halides. The result (Table S1, entry 2)
also shows that the carboxylation yield in MeOH is very low, only 1.9%.
2) During the experiment, we find that when the solvent is THF, most
of the supporting electrolyte in the system is not dissolved at 0 °C, which
results in poor conductivity of the system, and the cell voltage exceeds
the maximum range of the instrument by 120 V (while DMF is the
solvent under the same conditions, the cell voltage is about 6V), which
eventually leads to the interruption of the experiment. 3) when the
solvent is DMSO, even though the stirring speed is fast, the electrolyte
solution is still frozen, and the experiment cannot be performed
smoothly. This is because the temperature of the experiment (0 °C) is
lower than the melting point of DMSO (18.4 °C). Besides, Table 2
(entries 1, 10–12, seen p.10 and p.11 of the modified manuscript) shows
the optimal temperature of the system is 0 °C, so THF, MeOH and
DMSO are not the suitable solvents. In addition, as can be seen from
other similar literature (Tetrahedron 64 (2008) 10517–10520, Chemical
Communications, (2002), 2798–2799, Tetrahedron Letters 47 (2006)
7735–7739, Electrochemistry Communications 6 (2004) 627–631,
Journal of Electroanalytical Chemistry 664 (2012) 105–110,
Electrochemistry Communications 12 (2010) 1698–1702), MeCN and
DMF are generally studied, but THF, MeOH and DMSO are not.
Table S1
Effect of THF, MeOH and DMSO on the fixation of CO2 along with
o–bromopyridinea
Yieldb of 2a
Entry Solvent
(%)
1 THF ---
2 MeOH 1.9
3 DMSO ---
a
Electrolytic conditions: 10 mL solvent, 0.1 M TBABr, 0.1 M o–
bromopyridine, 8 mA/cm2, Ag cathode, Mg anode, 0 °C, 2 F/mol
charge passed, 1 atm CO2
b
The yield based on starting substrate is determined by HPLC
2. 1) According to the author's description in the article, water has a
greater impact on the reaction, and the author should give the
corresponding data. 2) In addition, I wonder to know the specific steps
of the final acidification.
Response: 1) Considering the reviewer’s suggestion, we have
investigated the effect of the water on the fixation of CO2 along with o–
bromopyridine. As shown in Table 1 (entry 2 and entry 5, seen p.8 and
p.9 of modified manuscript), The 2a’s yield decreases from 55.0% to
20.6% when 0.1 M water is added into the system, which indicates a
proton donor has a greater impact on the reaction. (seen in entry 2 and
entry 5 of Table 1 on p.8 and p.9, and p.8, line 4 from top in modified
manuscript). 2) At the end of the electrolysis, the solvent is distilled off
in vacuo. The residue is hydrolyzed in a mixture (24/76, v/v) of MeCN
and a NaH2PO4/Na2HPO4 buffer at pH 6. Then the yields of 2 are
determined by HPLC after appropriate dilution with the detection
wavelength of 265 nm, and the eluent is a mixture (12/88, v/v) of MeCN
and a NaH2PO4/Na2HPO4 buffer at pH 6. (seen p.5, line 6 from bottom
of modified manuscript).
3. Whether the final carboxylic acid product is a pure product or a
mixture of three products, the authors should give the corresponding
NMR data to prove it.
Response: As can be seen from equations 2 and 3(seen p.7, line 10 from
top and p.8, line 8 from bottom of modified manuscript), there are
carboxylation product (picolinic acid), hydrogenation product (pyridine)
and unreacted substrate (bromopyridine) in the product, and the yields
of picolinic acid are determined by HPLC with the detection wavelength
of 265 nm (eluent: a mixture (12/88, v/v) of MeCN and a
NaH2PO4/Na2HPO4 buffer at pH 6). In addition, the carboxylation
product (o–picolinic acid) is identified by comparing HPLC retention
time for a suspected compound with that of authentic sample. Taking
the fixation of CO2 along with o–bromopyridine as an example, the
authentic carboxylation product (o–picolinic acid) is commercially
obtained from J&K. In the experiment, a standard curve is first prepared
using the purchased authentic o–picolinic acid, and the yield of the
suspected o–picolinic acid is obtained by comparing the suspected
HPLC data with the standard curve. In addition, by comparing HPLC
retention time of authentic o–picolinic acid (Fig B1 below) with that of
the suspected o–picolinic acid (Fig B2 below) [1) the retention time of
authentic o–picolinic acid in HPLC (3.327min, Fig B1 below) is almost
the same as that of suspected o–picolinic acid in HPLC (3.268min, Fig
B2 below); 2) When the authentic o–picolinic acid is added to the
previous tested suspected o–picolinic acid sample (3.245min, Fig B3
below), both the peak intensity and area of the suspected o–picolinic
acid increase obviously (3.268min, Fig B2 below and 3.245min, Fig B3
below)], it is known that the carboxylation product is indeed o–picolinic
acid.
Fig. B1 HPLC of purchased authentic o–picolinic acid.
Fig. B2 HPLC of suspected o–picolinic acid.
Fig. B3 HPLC of suspected o–picolinic acid (Fig. B2) + authentic o–
picolinic acid.
4. This related work (Journal of the Electrochemical Society, 163(3),
H240-H242; 2016) should be cited.
Response: This related work is well done, and the literature suggested
by reviewer has been cited. (seen in literature [43] of modified
manuscript)
5. The article only tried brominated products. What is the result of
chloropyridine?
Response: Considering the reviewer’s suggestion, we have investigated
the electrocarboxylation of o–chloropyridine. As shown from the results
in Table S2 (below or of the modified Electronic Supplementary
Materials), both o–bromopyridine and o–chloropyridine are converted
into the corresponding o-picolinic acid with the yield of 55.0% and 16.2%
respectively. The electrocarboxylation yield (16.2%) of o–
chloropyridine is significantly lower than the carboxylation yield
(55.0%) of o–bromopyridine under the same conditions, and this is
because C-Cl bond are more difficult to activate than C-Br.
Table S2
Fixation of CO2 along with o–bromopyridine and o–chloropyridine a
Yieldb of
Entry Substrate
2a (%)
1 o-bromopyridine 55.0
2 o–chloropyridine 16.2
a
Electrolytic conditions: 10 mL DMF, 0.1 M TBABr, 0.1 M substrate,
8 mA/cm2, Ag cathode, Mg anode, 0 °C, 2 F/mol charge passed, 1 atm
CO2
b
The yield based on starting substrate is determined by HPLC
Special thanks to you for your good and bovine comments.
Reviewer #2:
1. Page 5, line 6 from bottom: authors state that after a certain amount
of charge was passed through the cell the current was switched off and
the carboxylation product was obtained through the ordinary work-up
of the electrolysed solution. A brief description of this “ordinary” work-
up procedure should be provided.
Response: We have modified this part according to the reviewer’s
suggestion: “The ordinary work-up for the electrolysis solution affords
the corresponding carboxylation product, then the yields of 2 are
determined by HPLC” is revised to “At the end of the electrolysis, the
solvent is distilled off in vacuo. The residue is hydrolyzed in a mixture
(24/76, v/v) of MeCN and a NaH2PO4/Na2HPO4 buffer at pH 6. Then
the yields of 2 are determined by HPLC after appropriate dilution with
the detection wavelength of 265 nm, and the eluent is a mixture (12/88,
v/v) of MeCN and a NaH2PO4/Na2HPO4 buffer at pH 6.” (seen p.5, line
6 from bottom of the modified manuscript)
2. Comparing the picolinic acid yields in MeCN and DMF, authors note
that hydrodehalogenation is more favoured than carboxylation in MeCN,
while the opposite is true in DMF, because MeCN is a much better
proton donor than DMF. At page 8, first line, they state, “in addition,
DMF is also a strong alkaline solvent, which facilitates the dissolution
of acidic products”. I cannot agree with this second observation. DMF
is a good solvent; it is neither an acid nor a base.
Response: We have modified this part according to the reviewer’s
suggestion: “In addition, DMF is also a strong alkaline solvent” is
revised to “In addition, DMF is a better solvent than acetonitrile” (seen
p.8, line 8 from top of the modified manuscript)
3. Page 8, line 9 from top: Authors state, “Therefore, combining the
electrolysis results and the solubility of the solvent itself, the most
suitable solvent in this study is DMF”. “The solubility of the solvent
itself” does not make any sense. Perhaps authors mean the solubility
limit of reagent or product. Please rephrase it.
Response: We have modified this part according to the reviewer’s
suggestion: “Therefore, combining the electrolysis results and the
solubility of the solvent itself, the most suitable solvent in this study is
DMF.” is revised to “Therefore, combining the electrolysis results and
the solubility limit of reagent or product, the most suitable solvent in
this study is DMF.” (p.8, line 10 from bottom of the modified
manuscript).
4. 1) Tables 1 and 2 report the yield of picolinic acid. Although authors
stated in the experimental section (page 5) how the yield was calculated,
it would be helpful to add a footnote in the table to define the yield as
(moles of 2a obtained/moles of starting 1). 2) In addition, a column
indicating reagent conversion is needed to better evaluate the
performance of the process.
Response: 1) Considering the reviewer’s suggestion, we have added a
footnote “The yield calculated with respect to starting substrate is
determined by HPLC” in the tables to define the yield (seen p.9, footnote
c of table 1; p.11, footnote b of table 2; p.13, footnote b of table 3 of the
modified manuscript). In addition, we have defined the moles of starting
1 marked in red in footnote “a” of the modified manuscript “a
Electrolytic conditions: 10 mL solvent …0.1 M o–bromopyridine
concentration…1 atm CO2.” (seen p.9, footnote a of table 1; p.11,
footnote a of table 2; p.13, footnote a of table 3 of the modified
manuscript). 2) In addition, the electrocarboxylation yield can be
calculated with respect to the starting substrate or the converted
substrate. The electrocarboxylation yield in this paper is calculated with
respect to the starting substrate.
5. The explanation reported in page 9 to rationalize the role
tetraalkylammonium salts used as background electrolyte is hardly
acceptable. First, there is no evidence for the formation of TRA-RCO2
ion pair in DMF. Ion pairs are not usually formed in highly polar
solvents such as DMF. Authors cite two papers for carboxylate
stabilization through ion-paring with tetraalkylammonium cations, but
neither paper reports a clear evidence of the existence of such ion pairs.
Reference 29 assumes carboxylate stabilization by TRA+ without
proving it, whereas reference 47 describes electrochemical preparation
of tetraalkylammonium salts (not to be confused with ion pairs). Second,
the statement, “Further, TEA+ is found much easier to be reduced than
TBA+ [48]” is false. In ref. 48, Dahm and Peters report the
electrochemical reduction mechanism of TEABF4 and TBABF4 in
DMF. They show that while reduction of the two tetraalkylammonium
cations requires similar potentials (-2.20 - -2.30 V vs Cd(Hg)/CdCl2),
their role as a proton donor via Hoffman elimination strongly depends
on the length of the alkyl chain. TEA+ is a much better proton donor
than TBA+. For that reason, the electrocarboxylation process reported
here gives higher acid yields in the presence of TBA+ than TEA+. The
whole discussion in page 9 is based on a wrong assumption that TEA+
is much more easily reduced than TBA+. Authors should read carefully
the paper by Dahm and Peters and accordingly discuss the role of TRA+
on the basis of competition between protonation and carboxylation and
the role of TRA+ as a proton donor.
Response: We have re-written this part according to the reviewer’s
suggestion. “Though Mg2+ could stabilize the electrogenerated
carboxylate anion, the initial concentration of Mg2+ is too low to make
it…Moreover …Furthermore… Thus… reducing the total
carboxylation yield to a greater extent.” is revised to “It is known that
protonation of o–bromopyridine described in Scheme 3 is the
competitive reaction of the carboxylation of o–bromopyridine described
in Scheme 2. In fact, the tetraalkylammonium cation (TRA+) can act as
a proton donor …, and TEA+ cation is a much better proton donor than
TBA+ cation …it is more beneficial to the formation of the
corresponding hydrogenated product.... For that reason, the
electrocarboxylation process reported here gives higher picolinic acid
yields in the presence of TBA+ cation than TEA+ cation (Table 1, entries
2, 4, 6–9).” (p.9, line 9 from bottom – p.10, line 1 from top of the
modified manuscript).
6. Page 12, line 5 from bottom: Authors state, “In addition, the peak
potentials of o-bromopyridine and m-bromopyridine are very close,
except that the peak current of m-bromopyridine is higher than that of
o-bromopyridine, and this may be due to the fact that the
m-bromopyridine is more active than o-bromopyridine on the
electrode.” This is not correct. In voltammetry, you accelerate the rate
of electron transfer up to a maximum value (after the peak potential)
limited by mass transfer. Therefore, the peak current depends on the
diffusion coefficient of the reagent rather than on its reactivity at the
electrode. The observed slight differences in peak currents (Fig. 3) are
due to different diffusion coefficients of bromopyridines.
Response: We have re-written this part according to the reviewer’s
suggestion. “and this may be due to the fact that the m-bromopyridine
is more active than o-bromopyridine on the electrode” is revised to “and
this may be due to the fact that the diffusion coefficient of
m-bromopyridine in the system is larger than that of o-bromopyridine”
(p.13, line 3 from top of the modified manuscript).
Special thanks to you for your good and bovine comments.
We tried our best to improve the manuscript and made some changes in
the manuscript. These changes will not influence the content and
framework of the paper. Here we did not list the changes but marked in
red in revised paper.
We appreciate for Editors/Reviewers’ warm work earnestly, and hope
that the correction will meet with approval.
Once again, thank you very much for your comments and suggestions.
Society Open
