Microwave-assisted synthesis, computational studies and
antibacterial/ anti-inflammatory activities of compounds
based on coumarin-pyrazole hybrid
Rakesh R. Chavan and Kallappa M. Hosamani
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172435.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172435
Review timeline
Original submission: 30 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 16 March 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 20 March 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172435.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
No
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is a good study, compounds synthesized are novel and appeared to be well characterized by
spectral data, and the synthesized compounds showed interesting antibacterial and anti-
inflammatory activities. The advantages of using microwave over conventional method have also
been demonstrated. In general I am in support of publication of this work in R. Soc. open sci. after
following revisions
1. The English language and grammar needs some improvements, e.g. the title can be rewritten as
“Microwave assisted synthesis, computational studies and antibacterial / anti-inflammatory
activities of compounds based on coumarin-pyrazole hybrid”. Check the whole manuscript for
this type of improvements.
2. Reference section: The journal names are not abbreviated in many places. Please check the R.
Soc. open sci. format.
3. Copies of 1HNMR and 13CNMR spectra of all new compounds synthesized should be
included as a supporting information file.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Mohammed Abid)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors described a simple approach of combining already known pharmacophores into one
structure and evaluated the anti-bacterial activity. Also, described the synthesis of a series of
analogs using microwave-assisted synthesis. Despite the fact that they utilized microwaves in
synthesis and obtained the isolated after column chromatography, the product yields seem
3
unrealistic. The manuscript is recommended after the following suggested corrections are made
by authors.
- Microwave assisted must be corrected to "microwave-assisted". Please the correction the title
and as it appears elsewhere.
-Scheme 2; mechanism and explanation of the mechanism is not necessary. Its a basic organic
chemistry.
-Coumarin and pyrazole derivatives are well known for their biological activity. Combining the
two cores in one structure would enhance activity due to synergistic effect. The authors failed to
comment on the synergistic effect. Did they get better activity of coumarins after combining with
pyrazole or vice versa? If there was no enhanced activity then the idea of combining into one
structure is baseless.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172435)
12-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Hosamani:
Title: Synthesis and Computational Study of coumarin-pyrazole hybrids: An approach to
microwave assisted synthesis and their biological activities
Manuscript ID: RSOS-172435
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 21-Mar-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
4
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Dunn.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
5
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This is a good study, compounds synthesized are novel and appeared to be well characterized by
spectral data, and the synthesized compounds showed interesting antibacterial and anti-
inflammatory activities. The advantages of using microwave over conventional method have also
been demonstrated. In general I am in support of publication of this work in R. Soc. open sci. after
following revisions
1. The English language and grammar needs some improvements, e.g. the title can be rewritten as
“Microwave assisted synthesis, computational studies and antibacterial / anti-inflammatory
activities of compounds based on coumarin-pyrazole hybrid”. Check the whole manuscript for
this type of improvements.
2. Reference section: The journal names are not abbreviated in many places. Please check the R.
Soc. open sci. format.
3. Copies of 1HNMR and 13CNMR spectra of all new compounds synthesized should be
included as a supporting information file.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors described a simple approach of combining already known pharmacophores into one
structure and evaluated the anti-bacterial activity. Also, described the synthesis of a series of
analogs using microwave-assisted synthesis. Despite the fact that they utilized microwaves in
synthesis and obtained the isolated after column chromatography, the product yields seem
unrealistic. The manuscript is recommended after the following suggested corrections are made
by authors.
- Microwave assisted must be corrected to "microwave-assisted". Please the correction the title
and as it appears elsewhere.
-Scheme 2; mechanism and explanation of the mechanism is not necessary. Its a basic organic
chemistry.
-Coumarin and pyrazole derivatives are well known for their biological activity. Combining the
two cores in one structure would enhance activity due to synergistic effect. The authors failed to
comment on the synergistic effect. Did they get better activity of coumarins after combining with
pyrazole or vice versa? If there was no enhanced activity then the idea of combining into one
structure is baseless.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172435)
See Appendix A.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172435.R1)
20-Mar-2018
Dear Dr Hosamani,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Microwave-assisted synthesis,
computational studies and antibacterial / anti-inflammatory activities of compounds based on
coumarin-pyrazole hybrid" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof Anthony Stace (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
pendix A
Ref: RSOS-172435
Title: Microwave-assisted synthesis, computational studies and antibacterial / anti-
inflammatory activities of compounds based on coumarin-pyrazole hybrid
Journal: Royal Society Open Science
Response to Reviewer’s Comments
Reviewer 1
Comments Corrections
.
The English language and grammar needs some The whole manuscript is improved
improvements, e.g. the title can be rewritten as by making corrections in the
“Microwave assisted synthesis, computational studies revised manuscript.
and antibacterial / anti-inflammatory activities of
compounds based on coumarin-pyrazole hybrid”.
Check the whole manuscript for this type of
improvements.
Reference section: The journal names are not The corrections are made and same
abbreviated in many places. Please check the R. Soc. are incorporated in the revised
open sci. format. research manuscript.
Copies of 1HNMR and 13CNMR spectra of all new We have deposited all the spectral
compounds synthesized should be included as a data in Dryad Data Accessibility.
supporting information file.
Spectral data: Dryad doi:
https://doi.org/10.5061/dryad.k2884
Reviewer 2
Comments Corrections
.
Microwave assisted must be corrected to "microwave-assisted". Corrections are made
Please the correction the title and as it appears elsewhere. and the same are
incorporated in the
revised research
manuscript.
Scheme 2; mechanism and explanation of the mechanism is not Scheme 2; mechanism
necessary. It’s a basic organic chemistry. and explanation of the
mechanism is deleted in
the revised manuscript.
Coumarin and pyrazole derivatives are well known for their The corrections are
biological activity. Combining the two cores in one structure made and the same are
would enhance activity due to synergistic effect. The authors incorporated in the
failed to comment on the synergistic effect. Did they get better revised research
activity of coumarins after combining with pyrazole or vice manuscript.
versa? If there was no enhanced activity then the idea of
combining into one structure is baseless.
m very much pleased to accept for any corrections in the research manuscript for favor of
lication in your esteemed journal. Hence, I am very happy to receive any comments, if any.
Prof. K. M. Hosamani
Society Open
