Forensic efficiency estimate and phylogenetic analysis for
Chinese Kyrgyz ethnic group revealed by a panel of 21
short tandem repeats
Yuxin Guo, Chong Chen, Tong Xie, Wei Cui, Haotian Meng, Xiaoye Jin and Bofeng Zhu
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 172089.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.172089
Review timeline
Original submission: 6 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 2 May 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 May 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-172089.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper provides a rigorous and systematic research upon this topic.
The manuscript reviewed is proper, well balanced*, and coherently argumentative, in alignment
with the stated research objectives. Besides, Tables’, and Figures’ included in the text are well
structured and systematically presenting the authors’ outcomes.
This paper provides a thorough and critically argumentative viewpoint upon this topic
examined, while its outcomes reveal promising new insights in advancing in this discipline.
*However, the article should be more interesting to readers(The article is valuable but in my
opinion it must also get recipients not only from a experts).
The first step will be figuring out exactly what "the message" to readers is. Tell a story that is
interesting and new. The introduction authors have failed to set a strong background of the
known knowledge (unless we focus only on a small group of experts).
In my opinion, the authors are on such an important subject nowadays but the design of study
has some limitations.
I think it’s offers new insights and its outcomes are of utmost importance upon this scientific area
and it’s worth to be published after minor revision
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Denise Syndercombe Court)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
I have attached a file (Appendix A)
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172089.R0)
23-Apr-2018
Dear Dr Zhu
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-172089 entitled
"Forensic Application and Population Genetics Study of Kyrgyz Ethnic Group from China Based
on 21 non-CODIS STR Loci" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science
subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees'
comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have all recommended publication and are very positive
about the paper, but they also suggest some minor revisions to your manuscript. Please note the
suggestions of Reviewer 1 in terms of making the paper more readable by scientists outside of the
immediate expert field. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-172089
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
4
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 02-May-2018). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees. We strongly recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold
text, or tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not
highlight them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
5
within your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data
can be accessed;
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for
each supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page,
so please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches.
Files on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article
so that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof Steve Brown (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper provides a rigorous and systematic research upon this topic.
The manuscript reviewed is proper, well balanced*, and coherently argumentative, in alignment
with the stated research objectives. Besides, Tables’, and Figures’ included in the text are well
structured and systematically presenting the authors’ outcomes.
This paper provides a thorough and critically argumentative viewpoint upon this topic
examined, while its outcomes reveal promising new insights in advancing in this discipline.
*However, the article should be more interesting to readers(The article is valuable but in my
opinion it must also get recipients not only from a experts).
6
The first step will be figuring out exactly what "the message" to readers is. Tell a story that is
interesting and new. The introduction authors have failed to set a strong background of the
known knowledge (unless we focus only on a small group of experts).
In my opinion, the authors are on such an important subject nowadays but the design of study
has some limitations.
I think it’s offers new insights and its outcomes are of utmost importance upon this scientific area
and it’s worth to be published after minor revision
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
I have attached a file
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-172089.R0)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-172089.R1)
04-May-2018
Dear Dr Zhu,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Forensic Efficiency Estimate and
Phylogenetic Analysis for Chinese Kyrgyz Ethnic Group Revealed by a Panel of 21 STRs" is now
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
7
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Andrew Dunn
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Prof Steve Brown (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
label_version_2
RSOS-172089
The authors have undertaken an extensive study of more than 300 individuals from an area of China
where many of the Kyrgyz ethnic group are found although they have a greater representation in
other countries to the west. Conflicts and migration have led to them being represented amongst
the countries that border China to the west. The purpose of the study is to provide population
frequency data from 21 STRs that are not ‘CODIS’ loci, thus providing a powerful set of markers that
can be exploited in relationship studies. In order to seek that the frequencies from this selection
may be usefully employed throughout Central Asia they have undertaken comparisons with
published data from other Central and East Asian populations to support this.
Their STRUCTURE analysis supports the homogeneity of STR frequencies across the studied
populations, suggesting that the frequencies would be broadly representative and certainly if they
include a 3% Fst probably there would be no concerns. The authors express some surprise that they
did not see a population structuring whereas other groups had, but the latter were looking at indels,
not STRs. Indels have a much lower mutation rate and they are likely to reveal deeper population
differences – as would Y chromosome and mitochondrial analysis – but this population has
historically clearly mixed with other ethnic groups over some considerable time and probably
represents a significantly admixed group, similar to the other groups studies, and because of the
more rapidly mutating STRs any defining differences are also lost.
Publishing population data is important as it provides useful information for the scientific population
to use and, in particular, provides information about STRs, some of which are not in common use.
Those employing them in relationship studies should also be aware of linkage possibilities when
using these markers and make appropriate adjustments.
Before this is published the authors should reflect on their comments on population differences and
also have another look at their allele frequency tables – these are presented to 4dp, although it is
not clear why as they all end with 0. Nevertheless they do not always add exactly to 1.00 and so
some rounding has probably taken place. They will need to improve the English substantially as well.
Professor Denise Syndercombe Court
King’s College, London
Appendix B
Key Laboratory of Shaanxi Province for Craniofacial Precision
Medicine Research College of Stomatology
Xi’an Jiaotong University
Bofeng Zhu
E-mail address: zhubofeng7372@126.com
April 30, 2018
Editor-in-chief
ROYAL SOCIETY OPEN SCIENCE
Dear editor and reviewer:
We are truly grateful to your critical comments and thoughtful suggestions on our manuscript,
“Forensic Efficiency Estimate and Phylogenetic Analysis for Chinese Kyrgyz Ethnic Group
Revealed by a Panel of 21 STRs” (RSOS-172089). Based on these comments and suggestions, we
have made careful modifications on the original manuscript. We sincerely hope the revised
manuscript will be publishable. Below you will find our point-by-point responses to the reviewers’
comments, the original comments are in black, and our responses are in blue.
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper provides a rigorous and systematic research upon this topic.
The manuscript reviewed is proper, well balanced*, and coherently argumentative, in alignment
with the stated research objectives. Besides, Tables’, and Figures’ included in the text are well
structured and systematically presenting the authors’ outcomes.
This paper provides a thorough and critically argumentative viewpoint upon this topic examined,
while its outcomes reveal promising new insights in advancing in this discipline.
*However, the article should be more interesting to readers (The article is valuable but in my
opinion it must also get recipients not only from a experts).
The first step will be figuring out exactly what "the message" to readers is. Tell a story that is
interesting and new. The introduction authors have failed to set a strong background of the known
knowledge (unless we focus only on a small group of experts).
In my opinion, the authors are on such an important subject nowadays but the design of study has
some limitations.
I think it’s offers new insights and its outcomes are of utmost importance upon this scientific area
and it’s worth to be published after minor revision.
Response:
Thank you for the comments.
To make the manuscript more interesting to readers, we have added some examples to explain
why more non-CODIS STR loci should be selected in the “Introduction” part. “In forensic
practice, to solve some disputed kinship testing, such as the duos parentage analysis without the
sample from father or mother, usually needs more non-CODIS STR loci to achieve the identifying
criterion. Besides, the mutation rates of STR loci were relative high, for this reason, the result of
parentage testing tend to be complex if even one or two mismatches occur between parent and
offspring. As a result, more non-CODIS STR loci were needed as a supplementary.”
What’s more, we also added some history about the Kyrgyz group in the “Results and discussion”
part to explain that that the studied Kyrgyz ethnic group and the two Central Asian populations
(Kazak and Uygur ethnic group) had close genetic relationships. “According to historical records,
from the Western Han Dynasty to the middle of the Qing Dynasty, Kyrgyz group, mainly stemmed
from the Yenisai River, to the Tianshan Mountains and Central Asia, experienced five westward
migrations which were basically facilitated by warfare. In this study, Kyrgyz group residing in the
southwestern part of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, China, broadly assimilated western
regions culture after the long term of mixed dwelling with the Uygurs, Kazaks and other ethnic
groups in Xinjiang.”
And the English was improved by a native speaker.
Reviewer: 2
The authors have undertaken an extensive study of more than 300 individuals from an area of
China where many of the Kyrgyz ethnic group are found although they have a greater
representation in other countries to the west. Conflicts and migration have led to them being
represented amongst the countries that border China to the west. The purpose of the study is to
provide population frequency data from 21 STRs that are not ‘CODIS’ loci, thus providing a
powerful set of markers that can be exploited in relationship studies. In order to seek that the
frequencies from this selection may be usefully employed throughout Central Asia they have
undertaken comparisons with published data from other Central and East Asian populations to
support this.
Their STRUCTURE analysis supports the homogeneity of STR frequencies across the studied
populations, suggesting that the frequencies would be broadly representative and certainly if they
include a 3% Fst probably there would be no concerns. The authors express some surprise that
they did not see a population structuring whereas other groups had, but the latter were looking at
indels, not STRs. Indels have a much lower mutation rate and they are likely to reveal deeper
population differences – as would Y chromosome and mitochondrial analysis – but this population
has historically clearly mixed with other ethnic groups over some considerable time and probably
represents a significantly admixed group, similar to the other groups studies, and because of the
more rapidly mutating STRs any defining differences are also lost.
Publishing population data is important as it provides useful information for the scientific
population to use and, in particular, provides information about STRs, some of which are not in
common use. Those employing them in relationship studies should also be aware of linkage
possibilities when using these markers and make appropriate adjustments.
Before this is published the authors should reflect on their comments on population differences
and also have another look at their allele frequency tables – these are presented to 4dp, although it
is not clear why as they all end with 0. Nevertheless they do not always add exactly to 1.00 and so
some rounding has probably taken place. They will need to improve the English substantially as
well.
Response:
Thank you for the advice.
In the “STRUCTURE analyses based on raw population data” part, we say, “the present result was
quite different from the previous studies”, but in fact, the previous studies were focused on indels,
not STRs. This is indeed a problem in consideration of the higher mutation rates of STRs than
which of indels. Then, we collected the genotype of 15 STR loci (containing 13 CODIS STR loci)
in some ethnic groups including East Asian (Beijing Han, Hui, Tibetan, Yi, Xibe, Li and She) and
Central Asian (Uyghur and Uzbek) in China and made STRUCTURE analyses. The result was
shown as below (K=5):
We found that the nine groups had a similar pattern of components distribution, which had a
strong resemblance with the result of 21 non-CODIS used in our research. It is inappropriate to
come to the conclusion that the present result was quite different from the previous studies, thus,
we deleted the inaccurate expression.
Besides, we have checked the Table 1 and Table 2 in which some data end with 0. Then, we
calculated all the parameters and corrected the Tables.
Finally, the manuscript was revised by a native speaker.
We hope that these revisions are satisfactory and that the revised version will be acceptable for
publication in ROYAL SOCIETY OPEN SCIENCE.
Thanks very much again for your attention to our paper. And, thank you for your help to our paper
processing.
Wish you all the best!
Sincerely
Bofeng Zhu
Society Open
