Cerium promoted V-g-C3N4 as highly efficient
heterogeneous catalysts for the direct benzene
hydroxylation
Cheng Wang, Liya Hu, Meiyin Wang, Bin Yue and Heyong He
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 180371.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.180371
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 March 2018 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 13 May 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 16 May 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-180371.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Jacques Vedrine)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This is good piece of work, well performed and experimental data well interpreted whatever be
XPS data of N, C and V states, or IR spectra. My main concern is that . the subject is not really
new and the improvement of catalyst performances is rather small and expected from previous
works using Ce as additive in many reactions of selective oxidation and hydroxylation.
Moreover, the pioneered work by G. Panov from Boreskov Institute of catalysis in Novosibirsk,
Russia, in the 1990s of benzene hydroxylation to phenol with N2O as oxidant on Fe-MFI zeolite
is even not mentionned. The process was industrialized by Solutia, long time ago, in industrial
sites were N2O was available from H2SO4 plants.
The use of H2O2 as an oxidant is interesting, but the authors should realize that its synthesis is
absolutely not environmentally friendly (use of superoxides) unless it is produced in situ, as
suggested by Hutchings et al on gold catalysts.
In conclusion, I am not very enthusiastic about publication although no scientific mistakes or
misinterpretation of experimental data were present.
If the editor accepts the paper, I suggest that the autors improve the industrial prospectives and
past parts of the reaction and catalysts.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors present work on Cerium promoted V-g-C3N4 as highly efficient heterogeneous
catalysts for the direct benzene hydroxylation. The subject is of interest. The hydroxylation of
benzene is important from the industrial point of view. The article is publishable in
R.Soc.Open.Sci after minor revision. My remarks are listed below:
3
1. What is the mechanism of the reaction?
2. What is the oxidation state of Ce? Is the XPS analysis of Ce was collected?
3. How TOF was determined? Which method was used to determine the number of metal atoms?
4. The carbon balance velues should be added to the table 1.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180371.R0)
18-Apr-2018
Dear Dr He:
Title: Cerium promoted V-g-C3N4 as highly efficient heterogeneous catalysts for the direct
benzene hydroxylation
Manuscript ID: RSOS-180371
Thank you for submitting the above manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. On behalf of the
Editors and the Royal Society of Chemistry, I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript will
be accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance
with the referee suggestions. Please find the reviewers' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work. We have included a screenshot example of the end statements for
reference.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 27-Apr-2018). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
4
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science. The
chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal
Society of Chemistry. I look forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all,
please do not hesitate to get in touch.
Best wishes,
Dr Laura Smith, MRSC
Publishing Editor, Journals
Royal Society of Chemistry,
Thomas Graham House,
Science Park, Milton Road,
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
5
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Eva
Hevia.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
(There are no comments.)
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
This is good piece of work, well performed and experimental data well interpreted whatever be
XPS data of N, C and V states, or IR spectra. My main concern is that . the subject is not really
new and the improvement of catalyst performances is rather small and expected from previous
works using Ce as additive in many reactions of selective oxidation and hydroxylation.
Moreover, the pioneered work by G. Panov from Boreskov Institute of catalysis in Novosibirsk,
Russia, in the 1990s of benzene hydroxylation to phenol with N2O as oxidant on Fe-MFI zeolite
is even not mentionned. The process was industrialized by Solutia, long time ago, in industrial
sites were N2O was available from H2SO4 plants.
The use of H2O2 as an oxidant is interesting, but the authors should realize that its synthesis is
absolutely not environmentally friendly (use of superoxides) unless it is produced in situ, as
suggested by Hutchings et al on gold catalysts.
In conclusion, I am not very enthusiastic about publication although no scientific mistakes or
misinterpretation of experimental data were present.
If the editor accepts the paper, I suggest that the autors improve the industrial prospectives and
past parts of the reaction and catalysts.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
The authors present work on Cerium promoted V-g-C3N4 as highly efficient heterogeneous
catalysts for the direct benzene hydroxylation. The subject is of interest. The hydroxylation of
benzene is important from the industrial point of view. The article is publishable in
R.Soc.Open.Sci after minor revision. My remarks are listed below:
1. What is the mechanism of the reaction?
2. What is the oxidation state of Ce? Is the XPS analysis of Ce was collected?
3. How TOF was determined? Which method was used to determine the number of metal atoms?
4. The carbon balance velues should be added to the table 1.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-180371.R0)
See Appendix A.
6
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-180371.R1)
16-May-2018
Dear Dr He,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Cerium promoted V-g-C3N4 as highly
efficient heterogeneous catalysts for the direct benzene hydroxylation" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted
as part of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry).
If your manuscript is newly submitted and subsequently accepted for publication after 1 Jan 2018,
you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request a waiver and this is
approved by Royal Society Publishing. Manuscripts originally submitted prior to 1 Jan 2018 will
not subject to a charge, even if they are accepted in 2018. You can find out more about the charges
at http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please
contact openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Elena Falco
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Dr Eva Hevia and Dr Anthony Stace
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author ():
RSC Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_7
(There are no comments.)
Reviewer comments to Author:
Appendix A
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_8
This is good piece of work, well performed and experimental data well interpreted
whatever be XPS data of N, C and V states, or IR spectra. My main concern is that the
subject is not really new and the improvement of catalyst performances is rather small
and expected from previous works using Ce as additive in many reactions of selective
oxidation and hydroxylation. Moreover, the pioneered work by G. Panov from
Boreskov Institute of catalysis in Novosibirsk, Russia, in the 1990s of benzene
hydroxylation to phenol with N2O as oxidant on Fe-MFI zeolite is even not
mentionned. The process was industrialized by Solutia, long time ago, in industrial
sites were N2O was available from H2SO4 plants.
The use of H2O2 as an oxidant is interesting, but the authors should realize that its
synthesis is absolutely not environmentally friendly (use of superoxides) unless it is
produced in situ, as suggested by Hutchings et al on gold catalysts.
In conclusion, I am not very enthusiastic about publication although no scientific
mistakes or misinterpretation of experimental data were present.
If the editor accepts the paper, I suggest that the authors improve the industrial
prospectives and past parts of the reaction and catalysts.
Answer: Thank the reviewer for the suggestion. The work suggested by the referee (J.
Mol. Catal. 1993, 84, 117-124) has been added and cited as reference 6 in the
Introduction part on page 1 and in the References part in the revised manuscript.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_9
The authors present work on Cerium promoted V-g-C3N4 as highly efficient
heterogeneous catalysts for the direct benzene hydroxylation. The subject is of interest.
The hydroxylation of benzene is important from the industrial point of view. The
article is publishable in R. Soc. Open. Sci. after minor revision. My remarks are listed
below:
1. What is the mechanism of the reaction?
Answer: According to the reviewer’s suggestion, we have added the possible
mechanism of the reaction on page 5,“A possible reaction mechanism of benzene
hydroxylation is proposed based on literature work [22]. Benzene is chemically
absorbed onto the surface of g-C3N4, and then the surface dispersed V4+ species are
oxidized by H2O2 to produce V5+-O-O• radicals and H2O. The main active V5+-O-O•
radicals are rapidly activated and reacted with absorbed benzene to gain the target
phenol and V5+ is reduced to V4+. At the same stage, the redox V5+/V4+ is supported by
Ce3+/Ce4+ to accelerate the reaction into the next recycle.”
2. What is the oxidation state of Ce? Is the XPS analysis of Ce was collected?
Answer: We appreciate the reviewer’s suggestion. The Ce XPS analysis of
Ce0.07-0.07V-g-C3N4 and recovered Ce0.07-0.07V-g-C3N4 has been supplied in Figure
S6 in the supporting information. Also, more discussion has been added on page 5 in
the revised manuscript, “Comparing with Ce0.07-0.07V-g-C3N4, the recovered
Ce0.07-0.07V-g-C3N4 catalyst has small amount of Ce4+ species with the appearance of
Ce4+ fingerprint (Fig. S6) [43]. The existence of Ce3+/Ce4+ is confirmed, which
promotes the formation of low state vanadium.”
3. How TOF was determined? Which method was used to determine the number of
metal atoms?
Answer: Thank the reviewer’s comment. Turnover frequency (TOF) is calculated as
the molecules of generated phenol per metal atom per hour, and the content of metals
(V and Ce) of all catalysts were detected by ICP-AES. Actually, there is no effective
method for direct measuring the surface exposed metal content at this stage. For the
catalysts in this manuscript, the metals with low loading content is highly dispersed in
the g-C3N4. Hence, we reasonably to use total metal content instead of surface metal
content to determine the number of metal atoms and calculate the TOF value.
4. The carbon balance values should be added to the table 1.
Answer: Thank the reviewer for the suggestion. We add the carbon balance values in
the revised Table 1. Also, more discussion has been added on page 2 in the revised
manuscript,“Moreover, the carbon balance values shown in Table 1 are >99% over
the three Ce-containing catalysts, indicating a high carbon yield with negligible side
reactions.”
Society Open
