Cultural factors that affected the spatial and temporal
epidemiology of kuru
J. T. Whitfield, W. H. Pako, J. Collinge and M. P. Alpers
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160789.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160789
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 October 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 November 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 6 December 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160789.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Markus Glatzel)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The paper by Whitfield et al. focusses on assessing possible explanations for the epidemiological
change in spatiotemporal patterns of the kuru epidemic over time. A focus is put on analyzing
cultural factors such as behavior linked to linguistic groups. The authors show that differences in
mortuary practices are key to understanding this issue.
The paper is a pleasure to read and it contains valuable unpublished data. Some minor points
could be addressed to improve the paper.
In line 137 the authors state: “Indeed this concern was realised with the outbreak of variant
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease … posing a significant threat to public health in the UK …”.
The initial dramatic scenarios of a vast epidemic of vCJD victims have not materialized
themselves, and it does look like this epidemic is nearing its end. This should be made clear in the
text.
In line 137 the authors introduce the exposure index as the total number of deaths from kuru
since the beginning of 1957 divided by the estimated village population in 1958, times 1000. Even
though this term has already been used in other publications by the group, it is nevertheless a
pretty complicated term. Couldn’t one use a more frequently used measure known from
epidemiological studies?
In line 461 the authors state: “ Prion strain type can also interact with codon 129 genotype..”. This
need to be formulated clearer.
Dr. M. Glatzel
Institute of Neuropathology, University of Hamburg
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Robert Attenborough)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
3
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
In my opinion this is a fine and practically publication-ready paper. My only reasons for
suggesting minor revision do not concern the science: a) I think one last editorial pass through for
idiomatic English would be beneficial, e.g. checking for tense ('We aim' surely better than 'We
aimed' here etc.), I find the phrase 'in the so-and-so' a little jarring when referring to language
groups, I recommend the convention of capitalizing Western when referring to more than just a
cardinal direction, always subject to Roy Soc guidelines of course; b) what is 'mumia', line 90?; c)
Figure 4, at least as printed out here and under the lighting I have, differentiation between the
three exposure index categories in the key is somewhere between subtle and undetectable.
Dr. Robert Attenborough
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160789)
17-Nov-2016
Dear Dr WHITFIELD
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160789 entitled
"Cultural factors that affected the spatial and temporal epidemiology of kuru" has been accepted
for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160789
4
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 26-Nov-2016). If you do not
think you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
5
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Dr Kevin Padian
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The paper by Whitfield et al. focusses on assessing possible explanations for the epidemiological
change in spatiotemporal patterns of the kuru epidemic over time. A focus is put on analyzing
cultural factors such as behavior linked to linguistic groups. The authors show that differences in
mortuary practices are key to understanding this issue.
The paper is a pleasure to read and it contains valuable unpublished data. Some minor points
could be addressed to improve the paper.
In line 137 the authors state: “Indeed this concern was realised with the outbreak of variant
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease … posing a significant threat to public health in the UK …”.
The initial dramatic scenarios of a vast epidemic of vCJD victims have not materialized
themselves, and it does look like this epidemic is nearing its end. This should be made clear in the
text.
In line 137 the authors introduce the exposure index as the total number of deaths from kuru
since the beginning of 1957 divided by the estimated village population in 1958, times 1000. Even
though this term has already been used in other publications by the group, it is nevertheless a
6
pretty complicated term. Couldn’t one use a more frequently used measure known from
epidemiological studies?
In line 461 the authors state: “ Prion strain type can also interact with codon 129 genotype..”. This
need to be formulated clearer.
Dr. M. Glatzel
Institute of Neuropathology, University of Hamburg
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
In my opinion this is a fine and practically publication-ready paper. My only reasons for
suggesting minor revision do not concern the science: a) I think one last editorial pass through for
idiomatic English would be beneficial, e.g. checking for tense ('We aim' surely better than 'We
aimed' here etc.), I find the phrase 'in the so-and-so' a little jarring when referring to language
groups, I recommend the convention of capitalizing Western when referring to more than just a
cardinal direction, always subject to Roy Soc guidelines of course; b) what is 'mumia', line 90?; c)
Figure 4, at least as printed out here and under the lighting I have, differentiation between the
three exposure index categories in the key is somewhere between subtle and undetectable.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160789)
Response to the editors Referees
Dear Reviewers,
We would like to thank all of you for your generous and helpful comments in relation to the
submitted paper. We have incorporated the suggested changes where appropriate, and
acknowledge the improvements these have made to the original submission.
We have completed the following sections as requested by the editors: ethical statements, data
accessibility, competing interests, acknowledgements and funding sections.
Reviewer 1
1. We have made appropriate changes to clarify the point made by the referee and added a
new reference.
2. Regarding the ‘exposure index’ and its definition, this is equivalent to a period
prevalence rate (or ratio), which is the most appropriate epidemiological measure for the purpose
of comparing exposure by village in the case of a uniformly fatal disease such as kuru. We agree
that ‘exposure index’ is not the best name for it but what we have defined and used is the best
measure for the purpose; since the term was adopted by the Prion Unit and we have stuck to it.
3. We have reformulated this complex interaction between prion strain and the codon 129
genotype, and added an additional reference which will allow readers to find out more about this
concept if they wish to.
Reviewer 2
1. We have checked the text and made a few revisions for clarity, as requested.
2. ‘Mumia’ has now been defined within the context of the paper.
3. Changes have been made to Figure 4 to ensure that the three areas of exposure to kuru
are now distinguishable.
7
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160789.R1)
06-Dec-2016
Dear Dr WHITFIELD,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Cultural factors that affected the
spatial and temporal epidemiology of kuru" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society
Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Society Open
