Modulation of leg joint function to produce emulated
acceleration during walking and running in humans
Dominic James Farris and Brent J. Raiteri
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160901.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160901
Review timeline
Original submission: 10 November 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 January 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 3 February 2017 appears in chronological order.
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal with peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160901.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors have satisfactorily addressed my concerns relating to scientific soundness. I am still
concerned about readability of the result section as well as about the lack of substance in the
discussion section regarding implications for assistive devices. Both concerns have not really been
addressed.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160901)
20-Dec-2016
Dear Dr Farris
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160901 entitled
"Modulation of leg joint function to produce emulated acceleration during walking and running
in humans" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor
revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end
of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160901
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
3
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 29-Dec-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
4
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Dr Kevin Padian
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The authors have satisfactorily addressed my concerns relating to scientific soundness. I am still
concerned about readability of the result section as well as about the lack of substance in the
discussion section regarding implications for assistive devices. Both concerns have not really been
addressed.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160901)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160901.R1)
03-Feb-2017
Dear Dr Farris,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Modulation of leg joint function to
produce emulated acceleration during walking and running in humans" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
5
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
We thank the Associate Editor and the Reviewer for their comments and have responded to each of
them individually below. Where appropriate we have made changes to the manuscript and these are
highlighted in the revised version with red text.
Comments from the Associate Editor
This paper makes an interesting contribution to the literature by investigating modulation of joint and
leg actuation patterns during emulated acceleration. While I am happy to accept this paper in
principle, the authors need to address a number of additional issues before the paper will be suitable
for publication. Specifically, I would like the authors to 1) adding some important missing details to
the methods section including software details and, more importantly, error information relevant to
the inverse dynamics analysis, 2) ensure that the discussion appropriately acknowledges the
limitations of the joint-level analysis, and 3) provide access to the full data set in support of the
findings, in line with RSOS policy. Please revise the manuscript to address the specific points below.
I agree with the previous reviewer’s point that the timing of mechanical events is likely to be very
important in understanding energetics and dynamics of the locomotor task and for applying the
findings of this study to prosthetics or exoskeletons, which limits the utility of the indices presented.
We do appreciate the concerns of the previous reviewer and current editor regarding the lack of
temporal information provided by the functional indexes. However, we do feel that the paper does
not rely solely on the indexes, but uses them as a broad indicator of function and breaks down
important phases of the gait cycles / joint mechanics that contributed to the changes in function,
thus providing information as to when important changes happen throughout the gait cycle in
addition to the indexes.
A broader concern, however, is that the joint level analysis does not consider the very likely
possibility of energy transfer among joints via multi-articular linkages. The finding that positive work
is modulated at the ankle does not directly imply that the ankle extensor muscles generated this
power. Indeed, it has been demonstrated in humans and other mammals that positive work
generated by hip muscles is often transferred to the ankle, which makes sense because it allows
the large powerful proximal muscles to contribute work while avoiding large accelerations of the
more massive limb segments. However, the authors have not adequately addressed this issue as a
limitation of their joint-level analysis. While the issue is acknowledged in the limitations section,
the implications of this limitation are not fully addressed. This concern has implications for
interpreting the findings for device design. The appearance of ankle joint work does not imply that
an actuator must be placed there. Energy can be transferred via multi-articular linkages from
actuators located more proximally. A device that tries to replicate joint-level function by putting
actual springs, dampers and actuators at each joint as indicated by the analysis in this paper would
probably be misguided. A more detailed analysis of these energy transfer patterns might allow
design of a prosthetic device that does not directly contribute positive work but instead assists in
developing effectively timed resistance torques (for example, by appropriately tuned passive
springs) to facilitate energy transfer from proximal muscles to distal segments.
As the Editor notes, we are aware of the concept of power transfer through the limb that exists and,
as we note in the manuscript, the inability to identify work that has been transferred is a limitation
of this approach. Most of the points touched on here by the Editor were acknowledged in the
Limitations section of the manuscript but we have added to this in an effort to place more emphasis
on the topic. While the body may use power transferred from proximal muscles as a means of doing
work at distal joints, it does not preclude the usefulness of knowing that work is done at those distal
joints and must be done at those joints to replicate natural gait. We do not claim this analysis to be
a definitive guide to how to apply external assistance – simply that it is useful information in the
process of formulating ideas and that the indexes provide a useful means of fair comparison to
constant speed that cannot be made with raw joint work/moment data. Furthermore, actuators
used for assistance are not constrained to being located on joints or even the leg (e.g. actuators in
a back pack connected by cables to the limb) and thus, unlike muscles, a large actuator may assist
at a joint without adding mass directly to the adjacent segments. Thus, the constraints that have
influenced evolution may not always be the same constraints that are imposed on design. We
therefore believe that the data presented are useful, even in light of some limitations, which we
acknowledge.
2) A number of important details have been omitted from the methods, and these need to be
amended before the paper is suitable for publication.
I agree with the previous reviewers comment that the stride selection criteria are unclear. What
specific event was used to parse the data into strides? A threshold force? Peak force? Minimum
force? Be specific about the type of event used and any specific thresholds, if relevant, as such
information would be necessary to replicate the methods for a similar study. Please also state
software used for this processing (or if the processing was done by hand, if this is the case).
Definitions of gait events that characterised walking and running have been added to section 4.3,
along with details of how events were determined. Data were processed via custom Matlab code
and this has now been mentioned in the same section.
What specific software packages and specific toolboxes (if relevant) were used for the data
processing and statistical analysis? This information is not mentioned anywhere. OpenSiM is
mentioned for the inverse dynamics, but this software is not suitable for the data processing and
statistical analysis steps, to my knowledge.
Statistical analyses were performed in GraphPad Prism software – this is now indicated in section
4.5 of the manuscript. All data processing beyond inverse dynamic and kinematic analyses were
performed using Matlab software and a series of custom scripts and functions. This is now indicated
at the end of section 4.2.
How did the authors align and synchronize the QTM and separately collected ATMI force plate data,
and in what software? Did the authors conduct any error/sensitivity analysis on the errors
associated with this process? Did the authors conduct any specific optimization to minimize these
errors? Inverse dynamics is extremely sensitive to the correct alignment of the kinematic and force
data both in time and space, and so it is important that the authors report this information including
the magnitude of potential errors.
We had unfortunately omitted the details that all signals from the instrumented treadmill and the
load cell were logged via the Qualisys system’s A-D board, in the QTM software. The system
synchronises A-D board sampling with camera data via genlock pulses sent by the system’s master
camera at each frame recorded. Thus the data are synchronised at every camera frame, minimising
any chance of de-synchronisation. Additional details of the data acquisition and synchronisation
have been added to section 4.1.
What were the resolution and noise/error characteristics of COP position and how did it compare
between walking and running? Force treadmills can be prone to substantial errors in CoP during
running due to larger vibrations of the treadmill at higher speeds. Did the authors conduct any
sensitivity analysis on potential effects of CoP error?
We have not conducted our own assessment of the noise/error characteristics but have maintained
the treadmill in line with the manufacturer’s recommendations. Measurements when the belts are
not running are the same as for equivalent force platforms but, as the editor notes, noise/error may
increase with locomotor speed. Prior studies have confirmed that data from these treadmills are
appropriate for studying the kinetics of both running and walking ([1, 2]). As the Editor suggests,
the noise may be greater for running vs walking but this should not be an issue for our study design,
as we are not comparing walking and running. Furthermore, running and walking speeds during
acceleration were not different from the respective speeds during the constant speed condition, so
noise due to speed variations should not bias our comparisons.
3) Data availability: It is RSOS policy for all data supporting the findings to be made publically
available either as a supplementary file or on a suitable public repository such as datadryad.org. It
is standard practice to make human subjects data anonymous by assigning a subject ID and
removing any personality identifying information. Therefore the authors do not need specific
ethical clearance to publish the supporting data. The data does not need to be in the ‘raw’ form of
trajectories over time, but should provide all of the values included in the statistical analysis, not
just the group-averaged values.
A supplementary spreadsheet has been provided containing joint angles and moments for each
participant (mean of all of that participant’s strides) in each condition.
and kinetic comparison of overground and treadmill running. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. 40, 1093-1100.
(doi:10.1249/MSS.0b013e3181677530).
[2] Riley, P.O., Paolini, G., Della Croce, U., Paylo, K.W. & Kerrigan, D.C. 2007 A kinematic and kinetic
comparison of overground and treadmill walking in healthy subjects. Gait Posture 26, 17-24.
(doi:10.1016/j.gaitpost.2006.07.003).
Reviewer: 1
The authors have satisfactorily addressed my concerns relating to scientific soundness. I am still
concerned about readability of the result section as well as about the lack of substance in the
discussion section regarding implications for assistive devices. Both concerns have not really been
addressed.
As stated in our prior response, we appreciate the reviewer’s viewpoint and have not dismissed it,
but stand by our decision to include all the results presented as a comprehensive presentation of
the data.
Again, we understand that the reviewer feels that the discussion on implications is limited, but we
believe that we have discussed what can reasonably be discussed using the present analysis. Thus,
we do not feel that we can add to this discussion of the present data without becoming overly
speculative.
Society Open
