Exploring the evolution of a trade-off between vigilance and
foraging in group-living organisms
Randal S. Olson, Patrick B. Haley, Fred C. Dyer and Christoph Adami
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150135.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150135
Review timeline
Original submission: 8 August 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 13 April 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 25 June 2015 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 17 August 2015
Note: This manuscript was transferred from another Royal Society journal after peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150135.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
NA
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The authors have improved the paper substantially since previous version. There are, however,
still some issues that need attention.
1) Semelparous/iteroparous. The way this is used in the paper is not according to
evolutionary logic. Iteroparity evolves from the consideration of a breeder: «should I invest all I
have now into offspring, or keep some for later and try to survive and find more resources for
another opportunity»? Hence, the biological reader will think that an iteroparous organism lives
LONGER than a semelparous. The authors address a different question: “I expect to live until T.
Should I delay reproduction until then, or reproduce many times”? This is the question of capital
breeding or income breeding. The MS should exchange all references to semelparity/iteroparity
to capital/income breeding to avoid confusing biological readers.
2) Short-sighted vs long-term benefits. The authors are very near a group-selection
argument here, and that should be avoided! Evolution cannot find “benefits” for groups, except
in very special situations. This has nothing to do with short-sightedness, but with (long-term)
“selfish” natural selection. So this text needs a deep new consideration. It reminds me, however,
on a paper by Eliassen et al (2006) in Evol Ecol Res on the co-existence of learning and
(“cheating”) non-learners.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes. Perhaps the computer codes should also be made avaialble.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Thank you for addressing my comments. The paper is now much clearer. I have one concern left.
In figure 4, a new strategy is introduced, namely, to forage individually. I am not clear why, if the
foragers are searching for food alone, the mean results vary depending on group size. Perhaps it
is just a matter of presenting more details in the methods section about this strategy.
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150135)
12-May-2015
Dear Dr Olson,
The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Exploring the evolution of a trade-off between
vigilance and foraging in group-living organisms") has now received comments from reviewers.
We would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 04-Jun-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
4
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Comments to Author:
Associate Editor's comments:
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
Your manuscript was re-read by the reviewers who looked at the version submitted to Interface,
and their comments should be attached. They are broadly positive about this version, but raise a
few concenrs that I think it should be easy to address -- in particular, pay heed to reviewer #1's
worries about invoking group selection within the text.
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The authors have improved the paper substantially since previous version. There are, however,
still some issues that need attention.
1) Semelparous/iteroparous. The way this is used in the paper is not according to
evolutionary logic. Iteroparity evolves from the consideration of a breeder: «should I invest all I
have now into offspring, or keep some for later and try to survive and find more resources for
another opportunity»? Hence, the biological reader will think that an iteroparous organism lives
LONGER than a semelparous. The authors address a different question: “I expect to live until T.
5
Should I delay reproduction until then, or reproduce many times”? This is the question of capital
breeding or income breeding. The MS should exchange all references to semelparity/iteroparity
to capital/income breeding to avoid confusing biological readers.
2) Short-sighted vs long-term benefits. The authors are very near a group-selection
argument here, and that should be avoided! Evolution cannot find “benefits” for groups, except
in very special situations. This has nothing to do with short-sightedness, but with (long-term)
“selfish” natural selection. So this text needs a deep new consideration. It reminds me, however,
on a paper by Eliassen et al (2006) in Evol Ecol Res on the co-existence of learning and
(“cheating”) non-learners.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Thank you for addressing my comments. The paper is now much clearer. I have one concern left.
In figure 4, a new strategy is introduced, namely, to forage individually. I am not clear why, if the
foragers are searching for food alone, the mean results vary depending on group size. Perhaps it
is just a matter of presenting more details in the methods section about this strategy.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150135)
See Appendix A.
pendix A
plies to Reviewers
le: Exploring the evolution of a trade-off between vigilance and foraging in
up-living organisms
thors: Randal S. Olson and Patrick B. Haley et al.
vision submitted to the Journal of the Royal Society Open Science, June 2015.
mmary
thank the two referees for their additional suggestions for improvement. In response, we have made
ral modifications to the paper, and we believe the paper is much stronger as a result. Specific responses
ach referee follow.
plies to Reviewer 1
. Semelparous/iteroparous. The way this is used in the paper is not according to evolutionary logic.
Iteroparity evolves from the consideration of a breeder: should I invest all I have now into offspring,
or keep some for later and try to survive and find more resources for another opportunity? Hence,
the biological reader will think that an iteroparous organism lives LONGER than a semelparous. The
authors address a different question: “I expect to live until T. Should I delay reproduction until then,
or reproduce many times?” This is the question of capital breeding or income breeding. The MS
should exchange all references to semelparity/iteroparity to capital/income breeding to avoid confusing
biological readers.
Authors’ reply: We thank the reviewer for stressing their concern with the terminology surround-
ing our implementation of reproductive strategies. We have shied away from the use of the capital
and income breeding terminology for the following reasons. For one, we are concerned that far fewer
biologists will have any intuitions about what these terms mean, as most biologists are more familiar
with the semelparity and iteroparity terminology. Second, the use of these terms has not been widely
embraced, leading to some doubts about their utility [1]. Third, the capital/income distinction is also
about resource allocation, and thus suffers similar drawbacks to the semelparity/iteroparity terminol-
ogy. Fourth, we are only using “semelparity” and “iteroparity” as shorthand terms for a manipulation
of when the fitness consequences of predation are experienced during a life cycle: For the semelparous
case, predation at any point negates any energy expended toward reproduction; for the iteroparous
case, predation in the middle or end of the potential lifespan does not negate any energy expended
toward reproduction. Even though research on the evolution of *-parity is about resource allocation,
predation that occurs with random probability in the lifespan will have a larger impact on the fitness of
a semelparous organism than an iteroparous organism, leading to stronger selection for anti-predator
strategies—all else (including lifespan) being equal.
To summarize these concerns in the manuscript, we have added the following paragraph to the “Re-
productive strategies” section. We hope the reviewer finds this compromise acceptable.
“We note that these are highly simplified implementations of reproductive strategies and are meant
to capture one key variable: the probability of reproduction occurring prior to a predation event.
Our implementations of semelparity and iteroparity vary slightly from their typical use in life history
theory—which focuses on how an organism should allocate resources to growth vs. reproduction—
whereas here we use “semelparity” and “iteroparity” as shorthand for a manipulation of when the
fitness consequences of predation is experienced during a life cycle. Some readers may also find our
implementations of semelparity and iteroparity akin to capital and income breeding [1], respectively,
which is also a viable interpretation of the reproductive strategies in our model.”
. Short-sighted vs long-term benefits. The authors are very near a group-selection argument here, and
that should be avoided! Evolution cannot find “benefits” for groups, except in very special situations.
This has nothing to do with short-sightedness, but with (long-term) “selfish” natural selection. So this
text needs a deep new consideration. It reminds me, however, on a paper by Eliassen et al (2006) in
Evol Ecol Res on the co-existence of learning and (“cheating”) non-learners.
Authors’ reply: It was not our intention to invoke a group-selection argument in the manuscript,
and we have revised our text to ensure that we do not inadvertently claim that selection occurs on the
group level. Specifically, we have changed our discussions of short-term vs. long-term benefits in the
2nd paragraph of the “Optional grouping” section and the 7th paragraph of the Discussion such that
they are in more traditional terms of individual-level selection. We thank the reviewer for raising this
issue, and we hope our revisions address the reviewer’s concerns.
plies to Reviewer 2
. In figure 4, a new strategy is introduced, namely, to forage individually. I am not clear why, if the
foragers are searching for food alone, the mean results vary depending on group size. Perhaps it is just
a matter of presenting more details in the methods section about this strategy.
Authors’ reply: The reviewer is correct in noting that individual foragers should not vary their
vigilance strategy in response to “group” size. (We use the term “group” loosely for the individual
forager experiment, since none of the foragers in this experiment are actually foraging in a group.) We
believe that the reason for this incongruity is the fact that we were not scaling the predator attack rates
as prey were captured—and therefore the group became smaller—over the course of the simulation.
This means that prey in smaller groups suffered significantly more when one of their group members
was captured than prey in larger groups, resulting in a stronger selection pressure imposed by predation
and therefore a stronger necessity for higher levels of individual vigilance.
After careful reconsideration of our model, we decided that the above issue was a design flaw and
re-ran all of our experiments in a model where the predator attack rate scales with group size over
the course of the simulation. We have updated all of the figures in the manuscript with the data from
these new experiments and no longer observe the unexpected trend discussed in the reviewer comment.
This new data also necessitated a slightly different interpretation of the results in the “Tragedy of the
commons” section (and corresponding paragraphs in the Discussion), which we have updated in the
newest version of the manuscript.
We thank the reviewer for raising this important point, and hope the improvements to the manuscript
satisfy the reviewers’ concerns.
ferences
Philip A. Stephens, Ian L. Boyd, John M. McNamara, and Alasdair I. Houston. Capital breeding and
income breeding: their meaning, measurement, and worth. Ecology, 90:2057–2067, 2009.
Society Open
