Camp stability predicts patterns of hunter–gatherer
cooperation
Daniel Smith, Mark Dyble, James Thompson, Katie Major, Abigail Page, Nikhil Chaudhary,
Gul Deniz Salali, Lucio Vinicius, Andrea B. Migliano and Ruth Mace
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160131.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160131
Review timeline
Original submission: 24 February 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
1st revised submission: 5 May 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
2nd revised submission: 10 June 2016 appears in chronological order.
Final acceptance: 17 June 2016
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160131.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Colette Berbesque)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I am not sure--it seems the analyses are available, but I don't see the raw data (if that is
necessary).
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
See attached file. See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160131)
28-Apr-2016
Dear Mr Smith,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Camp Stability Predicts Patterns of Hunter-Gatherer
Cooperation") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise your
paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found below
(not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not guarantee
eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 21-May-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
3
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160131
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
4
Comments to Author:
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached file.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160131)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-160131.R1 (Revision)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Colette Berbesque)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
I don't see the raw data.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See attached file. See Appendix C.
5
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160131.R1)
08-Jun-2016
Dear Mr Smith:
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160131.R1
entitled "Camp Stability Predicts Patterns of Hunter-Gatherer Cooperation" has been accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the
referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and Subject Editor have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160131.R1
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
6
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 17-Jun-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Sceince
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
7
Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
See attached file.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160131.R1)
See Appendix D.
Appendix A
Review: Camp Stability Predicts Patterns of Hunter-Gatherer Cooperation
General Comments:
This is an interesting manuscript that advances the costly signaling/tolerated
scrounging debate. This debate has important consequences for Life History
Theory, and for the evolution of cooperation. Although the conclusions are not
very surprising (this result has been hypothesized in various texts—Kelly etc.),
to the best of my knowledge, this is the first time data has been used to actually
test the association between residential stability and patterns of cooperation.
The data presented in this paper also leads to important predictions about the
nature of contemporary hunter-gatherer patterns of redistribution versus
ancestral patterns of redistribution. In contemporary hunter-gatherer
populations, camp stability is often forced by neighboring agricultural groups
that restrict home range size. This implication is not currently explicitly
discussed, but is another way in which this paper makes an important
contribution to the literature.
Main Critique
The most important critique I have is that tolerated scrounging/demand sharing
is not actually tested with this study design. Inferences can be made about what
(if not reciprocity, as they aptly demonstrate) explains the patterns of
redistribution in less stable residential camps, but the study design does not
appear to actually track receivers’ demands on resources—rather it tracks
unpressured donations by ego. If this is the case, then demand sharing must be
listed as a possible explanation for the results, however there are other potential
explanations. If not the case, and the study does track demands on givers, the
methods need clarification to reflect this.
Minor Critiques
It may be that rice is not distributed in ways that adhere to cultural norms
(partly due to a lack of cultural salience). If this were true, you might find
different patterns of redistribution using a culturally salient food (that is a
foraged food) such as honey, or game. This should be addressed if possible in the
methods.
In the discussion (~Line 407), the discussion of how sedentism can emerge is too
limited. Sedentism can be caused in a number of ways without MI or
interactions with external institutions. One way is merely by geographical
circumscription by other groups, even if they do not become trade partners or
market integrated with these neighboring groups. This is similar to the idea of
state formation by Robert Carniero, but it applies well to contemporary hunter-
gatherers in this time of intensive agriculturalists. Another way is purely by
tight geographical and/ or spatial clustering resources, as seen in Northwest
coast hunter-gatherer populations. This is important because is still unclear
whether sedentism is the main factor affecting reciprocity rather than market
integration. Though these factors are often associated, it is important to be clear
about exactly which is being tested and how they may or may not be
distinguishable in a given population.
Lines 167-174, it isn’t currently clear why not everyone can receive rice—
perhaps a sentence explaining how many tokens there are versus participants
could help clarify (I’m guessing participants >10, tokens = 10—but I’m not sure).
174 & 175 Is there a particular reason 1/8 kilo was chosen? Is this roughly a
meal? Again, it isn’t critical, but would help us to understand the study design.
Based on other experimental economics games, people are often ‘stingy’ or
‘generous’ in different economics games (Marlowe, F. W., Berbesque, J. C.,
Barrett, C., Bolyanatz, A., Gurven, M., & Tracer, D. (2010). The
‘spiteful’origins of human cooperation. Proceedings of the Royal Society of
London B: Biological Sciences, rspb20102342.), did you find individual responses
in the TG and SG were associated?
Line 206—This would benefit from more detail on in and out of camp mobility.
Over what time period is this calculated, and how was this operationalized? For
instance, if a visitor arrives for an hour and leaves, does this affect the in-camp
stability measure? Also, more detail on out-of camp mobility would help.
Additionally, what is the average mobility for this group (# moves per year,
average length of residency in camp, etc). Do camps entirely reform (0 stability),
and if so, how often? In terms of understanding broader implications of this
paper, it would be great to see how different camps compared (very generally) to
other H-G societies (you could find measures of this in Kelly’s book).
231—Why control for what seems like the variable of interest? Is this some way
of weighting by camp more strongly than by individual? Perhaps a sentence or
phrase explaining the logic of this control variable would help.
247 Three of how many camps?
251 Was there any way participants could demand in this game? How do we
know this doesn’t merely indicate stinginess or norms of sharing?
257-260 This has been found before across a number of cultures, local
residential group size predicted generosity (see Marlowe, F. W., Berbesque, J.
C., Barr, A., Barrett, C., Bolyanatz, A., Cardenas, J. C., ... & Henrich, N. 2008.
More ‘altruistic’punishment in larger societies. Proceedings of the Royal Society
of London B: Biological Sciences, 275(1634), 587-592.)
273, 293, 294 If some camps are more involved in harvesting rice, this may be
problematic, as there may be norms of sharing rice established in rice producing
camps, but not in foraging camps. Perhaps rice production and food storage
should be controls. In the results we see more variables (dependent offspring,
etc.) that were not mentioned before. A table of variables of interest in the
methods section (dependent, independent and controls) would really help the
reader, rather than a stream of mentions of various variables throughout the
results.
343 It isn’t clear how you can ‘demand share’ in the games as they are presented
in this text. Can players barter with ego while they are distributing? If not, we
cannot be sure that demand sharing explains these patterns of redistribution. It
may explain them, but further evidence is needed to rule out other explanations.
Actual food sharing—it seems this does not include amount, but rather instances
of exchange. This should be made clearer throughout the text.
357&358 This is also consistent with other experiments in other populations,
unless this counts toward a limited number of references, references evidencing
that this is common would strengthen this section.
397 The association with market integration (MI) may be spurious, as MI is
associated with other factors that may contribute to patterns of cooperation
(such as local population size—which your data indicate, as do cross-cultural
results on other experimental economics games) Marlowe et al 2008. More
‘altruistic’punishment in larger societies (listed above).
If indeed frequency of interactions with strangers versus kin or exchange
partners is the reason for different patterns of reciprocity, factors other than MI
should be considered. There does not seem to be a strong reason to jump to one
particular proxy for these interactions in this paper.
416 This finding (number of offspring) was also found among the Hadza. See
pp 166 of Marlowe, F. W. (2014). Better to Receive Than to Give: Hadza
Behavior in Three Experimental Economic Games. Experimenting with Social
Norms: Fairness and Punishment in Cross-Cultural Perspective: Fairness and
Punishment in Cross-Cultural Perspective, 161.
He also found camp population size predicted results in the UG (same
paper)—which is similar to your results (even though larger camps are due to
seasonal variation rather than proximity to a village).
433 “Although consanguineal kin presence did not influence the amount
given” Is this referring to the SG results? Again, it did not sound like
amounts in actual sharing were recorded—if not this needs to be reworded
such that it does not sound like amounts but rather instances/incidences.
452-453 This would have more impact if the observed range, and average camp
size in the population were described numerically and given a bit of context.
How do these compare to the average local group size of other subsistence
strategies, or other hunter-gatherer groups?
457-460 This should be carefully worded, as several ethnographers present both
types of data and discuss how they inter-relate—simply not in the same article
(e.g. Kim Hill, Frank Marlowe, John Ziker).
Appendix B
Response to Referees
Reviewer 1:
General Comments:
This is an interesting manuscript that advances the costly signaling/tolerated
scrounging debate. This debate has important consequences for Life History Theory,
and for the evolution of cooperation. Although the conclusions are not very surprising
(this result has been hypothesized in various texts—Kelly etc.), to the best of my
knowledge, this is the first time data has been used to actually test the association
between residential stability and patterns of cooperation. The data presented in this
paper also leads to important predictions about the nature of contemporary hunter-
gatherer patterns of redistribution versus ancestral patterns of redistribution. In
contemporary hunter-gatherer populations, camp stability is often forced by
neighboring agricultural groups that restrict home range size. This implication is not
currently explicitly discussed, but is another way in which this paper makes an
important contribution to the literature.
Main Critique
The most important critique I have is that tolerated scrounging/demand sharing is not
actually tested with this study design. Inferences can be made about what (if not
reciprocity, as they aptly demonstrate) explains the patterns of redistribution in less
stable residential camps, but the study design does not appear to actually track
receivers’ demands on resources—rather it tracks unpressured donations by ego. If
this is the case, then demand sharing must be listed as a possible explanation for
the results, however there are other potential explanations. If not the case, and the
study does track demands on givers, the methods need clarification to reflect this.
Reply: We thank reviewer 1 for helpful comments and suggestions. We would agree
with the reviewer’s interpretation if only observational food-sharing data and the
Sharing Game (where individuals gave resources to others) had been conducted. In
both of these scenarios if resource transfers were non-reciprocal then this may only
suggest tolerated theft/demand sharing as a potential explanation, without explicitly
demonstrating that demand sharing occurred. However, by also including the Taking
Game (where individuals take (or demand) resources from others), and finding that
the frequency of demand sharing increases in unstable camps (table 3), this
provides experimental evidence that demand sharing occurs more often in less
stable camps. This may explain why real-world food-sharing patterns were not
reciprocal in less stable camps (we do acknowledge though that demand sharing, in
terms of real-world food-sharing, is only inferred, rather than strictly demonstrated).
That the experimental aspect of our study explores both giving behaviour and
demand sharing has been clarified in the Introduction (lines 115-124) “One game
consists of dividing resources between ego and camp-mates, simulating giving to
others (high producer control), while the other concerns taking from others in order
for ego to receive resources, simulating demand sharing (low producer control). [8]
Both [experimental] scenarios are required to demonstrate that food transfers occur.
By including games where individuals both give and take resources from others, if
individuals engage in taking behaviour, one can still infer that resources are
distributed, even if individuals do not give to others.”
We have also altered the first section of the discussion in an attempt to clarify our
results with respect to tolerated theft/demand sharing (lines 369-382): “Conversely,
instability in camp composition was found to mitigate reciprocal cooperation, with
camps possessing greater turnover in membership associated with reduced
reciprocity in actual food-sharing analyses. We acknowledge that a lack of
reciprocity in real-world food-sharing analysis does not necessarily mean that a
demand sharing system of distribution is present, although it is consistent with the
results. To explore demand sharing in greater detail the amount shared, rather than
just instances of sharing (as employed here), would be required (see [18,33,34]).
However, as the level of taking in the TG increased in less stable camps, we infer
that the lack of reciprocity in actual food-sharing reflects a greater emphasis on
demand sharing in these camps. These differences were also reflected in the dyadic
analysis for the TG, as reciprocal considerations were of no importance regarding
whom to take from, but rather resource quantity and proximity predicted taking
behaviour, consistent with theories of tolerated theft/demand sharing [22,25].”
Minor Critiques
It may be that rice is not distributed in ways that adhere to cultural norms (partly due
to a lack of cultural salience). If this were true, you might find different patterns of
redistribution using a culturally salient food (that is a foraged food) such as honey, or
game. This should be addressed if possible in the methods.
Reply: These concerns are addressed in Supplementary Material (Sections 1 and 2),
and suggest that rice is extremely culturally salient for the Agta. The majority of
meals are consumed with rice, and the Agta attach great value to it. Preliminary
games were conducted with honey sticks, but these were perceived to have little
value and were freely distributed to children. Furthermore, the correspondence
between game and real-world behaviour suggests that rice in the games was
distributed according to camp-specific sharing norms. We agree that future
experimental games in other currencies would be enlightening, but we feel that our
choice of rice is culturally appropriate in the case of the Agta.
In the discussion (~Line 407), the discussion of how sedentism can emerge is too
limited. Sedentism can be caused in a number of ways without MI or interactions
with external institutions. One way is merely by geographical circumscription by other
groups, even if they do not become trade partners or market integrated with these
neighboring groups. This is similar to the idea of state formation by Robert Carniero,
but it applies well to contemporary huntergatherers in this time of intensive
agriculturalists. Another way is purely by tight geographical and/ or spatial clustering
resources, as seen in Northwest coast hunter-gatherer populations. This is important
because is still unclear whether sedentism is the main factor affecting reciprocity
rather than market integration. Though these factors are often associated, it is
important to be clear about exactly which is being tested and how they may or may
not be distinguishable in a given population.
Reply: We agree that understanding the causes of variation in mobility and camp
stability are important, especially in terms of interactions with neighbouring
agricultural populations, and that our discussion presents only a surface-level
analysis of these factors. However, the aim of our study was primarily to understand
the consequences of variation in camp stability with respect to cooperation and food-
sharing, rather than the causes of this variation. We have therefore altered this
section to now read (lines 409-416): “Similar patterns of exogenous influences on
forager settlement patterns have been reported in other populations, such as
governmental influences among the San [37] or interactions with Bantu farmer
villages among central African Pygmies [38]. While understanding the causes of
variation in camp stability is important, the main topic of interest here are the
consequences of this variation. We leave it to future studies to further explore the
causes of residential mobility, but nonetheless predict that when camp stability is
high, regardless of the cause, greater levels of reciprocal cooperation are expected.”
Lines 167-174, it isn’t currently clear why not everyone can receive rice — perhaps a
sentence explaining how many tokens there are versus participants could help clarify
(I’m guessing participants >10, tokens = 10—but I’m not sure).
Reply: We have now altered this section to read (lines 173-176): “8impossible for
everyone (including ego) to receive rice (e.g., with 11 pictures (10 camp-mates plus
ego) 10 tokens would be given, while for 9 pictures (8 camp-mates plus ego) 8
tokens would be given).”
174 & 175 Is there a particular reason 1/8 kilo was chosen? Is this roughly a meal?
Again, it isn’t critical, but would help us to understand the study design.
Reply: This topic is now covered in the Supplementary Material (lines 60-64): “One-
eighth of a kilo of rice (125g) was used as this is approximately the size of a portion
of rice for one adult. Filipino’s, at least in the area we worked, often weigh food in
terms of fractions of a kilo (one-half, one-quarter, one-eighth, etc.), meaning that
other terms of measurement, such as grams, may more likely be misunderstood.”
Based on other experimental economics games, people are often ‘stingy’ or
‘generous’ in different economics games (Marlowe, F. W., Berbesque, J. C., Barrett,
C., Bolyanatz, A., Gurven, M., & Tracer, D. (2010). The ‘spiteful’origins of human
cooperation. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London B: Biological Sciences,
rspb20102342.), did you find individual responses in the TG and SG were
associated?
Reply: Yes, as mentioned in the Results section (line 306: “8the significant
correlation between SG and TG scores (r=0.59, n=290, p<0.001).”) and in the
Discussion (lines 384-386: “8as further evidenced by the correlation between
amount kept in the SG and amount taken in the TG.”) individual behaviour in both
games correlated significantly, suggesting that individuals who gave lots to others in
the SG took little in the TG, while those who took lots in the TG, gave less to others
in the SG.
Line 206—This would benefit from more detail on in and out of camp mobility. Over
what time period is this calculated, and how was this operationalized? For instance,
if a visitor arrives for an hour and leaves, does this affect the in-camp stability
measure? Also, more detail on out-of camp mobility would help. Additionally, what is
the average mobility for this group (# moves per year, average length of residency in
camp, etc). Do camps entirely reform (0 stability), and if so, how often? In terms of
understanding broader implications of this paper, it would be great to see how
different camps compared (very generally) to other H-G societies (you could find
measures of this in Kelly’s book).
Reply: As noted in the main text we refer the reader to Section 3 of the
Supplementary Material for specific details on how camp stability was calculated and
operationalised. Briefly, by assessing camp membership over multiple visits and
noting who had moved in, moved out, or remained over time, it was possible to
derive an index of camp stability, from ‘0’ (meaning complete change in camp
composition) to ‘1’ (meaning no change in camp composition). Each census was
taken upon entering a camp. Any subsequent mobility occurring after the census,
such as an individual arriving and then leaving half an hour later, would not therefore
affect this measure. From this data it was only possible to examine whether an
individual was present in a certain camp over multiple visits, and not other measures
of mobility, such as the number of moves per year or the average length of residency
in camp. The average figure for days between moves among the Agta is estimated
to be 12.5, but obviously this will vary depending on camp stability. While important,
these measures are less relevant for the current study as they do not directly assess
levels of repeated interactions between individuals, which our measure of camp
stability does.
231—Why control for what seems like the variable of interest? Is this some way of
weighting by camp more strongly than by individual? Perhaps a sentence or phrase
explaining the logic of this control variable would help.
Reply: A new sentence has been included to explain this more clearly (lines 236-
239): “This control ensures that patterns of resource transfers are not confounded
with the amount distributed, as without it reciprocity and cooperativeness may be
conflated if individuals distribute widely (i.e., mistaking generalised sharing, with no
expectations of reciprocation, for actual reciprocity).” It may therefore be possible
that we are underestimating the effect of reciprocity in these games, but this makes
the findings of reciprocity in the Sharing Game a minimum estimate of the effect of
reciprocity.
247 Three of how many camps?
Reply: Three of six camps. This has now been updated in the text (line 254)
251 Was there any way participants could demand in this game? How do we know
this doesn’t merely indicate stinginess or norms of sharing?
Reply: This results section refers to real-world food-sharing behaviour, rather than
experimental game behaviour.
257-260 This has been found before across a number of cultures, local residential
group size predicted generosity (see Marlowe, F. W., Berbesque, J. C., Barr, A.,
Barrett, C., Bolyanatz, A., Cardenas, J. C., ... & Henrich, N. 2008. More altruistic’
punishment in larger societies. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London B:
Biological Sciences, 275(1634), 587-592.)
Reply: The results referred to here are from observations of real-world food-sharing,
rather than experimental game behaviour. As this measures patterns of food-
sharing, it is difficult to establish specific levels of generosity from this analysis. In
the experimental games, which contained data from more camps than the real-world
food-sharing data, no effect of group size on cooperative behaviour was reported
(see table S3 in Supplementary Material).
273, 293, 294 If some camps are more involved in harvesting rice, this may be
problematic, as there may be norms of sharing rice established in rice producing
camps, but not in foraging camps. Perhaps rice production and food storage should
be controls. In the results we see more variables (dependent offspring, etc.) that
were not mentioned before. A table of variables of interest in the methods section
(dependent, independent and controls) would really help the reader, rather than a
stream of mentions of various variables throughout the results.
Reply: As mentioned above, even camps not currently engaged in harvesting rice
still acquire many of their calories from rice traded with farmers for foraged goods.
Conversely, even camps which engage more in harvesting rice still participate in
foraging. As rice harvesting is seasonal, at other times of the year they invest more
in foraging. This has been clarified in the Supplementary Materials (lines 18-21):
“The Agta engage in a flexible mixed subsistence economy, meaning that individuals
or camps involved in harvesting rice (or wage labour) still forage alongside this
agricultural/labour work, while often returning to a predominantly foraging mode of
subsistence post-harvest (or post-labour).” To make a sharp distinction between
foraging and non-foraging camps would be misleading.
Whether one takes rice harvesting and storage as controls or independent
variables is largely a matter of perspective; they do not change the results of the
analysis. As there is no evidence of colinearity between harvesting rice and
possessing stored rice (see table S4 in Supplementary Material), indicating that even
individuals not involved in harvesting rice still possess stores of it, this argues
against an interpretation that camps involved in harvesting rice have more
experience sharing it (see lines 56-60 in Supplementary Material). We would
therefore argue that harvesting rice and storage are measures of need and
availability, rather than familiarity or cultural salience with rice, meaning that they
should be seen as independent, rather than control, variables.
A table of variables of interest is presented in Table S1 in the Supplementary
Materials, which for reasons of space was not included in the main text. As we have
clarified in the main text (lines 220-222): “Other demographic, socioecological, and
behavioural variables were included in the analysis to explore and control for other
factors influencing cooperation (table S1).”
343 It isn’t clear how you can ‘demand share’ in the games as they are presented in
this text. Can players barter with ego while they are distributing? If not, we cannot be
sure that demand sharing explains these patterns of redistribution. It may explain
them, but further evidence is needed to rule out other explanations. Actual food
sharing—it seems this does not include amount, but rather instances of exchange.
This should be made clearer throughout the text.
Reply: We designed the Taking Game, where individuals take resources off of
others, to simulate Demand Sharing experimentally. No bartering is possible in this
game, but it does fulfil other characteristics of a demand sharing system, such as a
lack of producer control (those who begin the game with resources cannot decide
how much individuals take from them) and variation in resource quantity (as some
individuals begin the game with only one rice token, while others begin with two).
The findings of this game, that individuals take more in unstable camps, and that
resource distributions predominantly occur via taking resources from those with
more, regardless of kinship or reciprocity, are consistent with theoretical accounts of
tolerated theft/demand sharing. We have made this more explicit in the text of the
Results section (lines 350-352): “Demand sharing in the games – taking more
resources from others – was therefore more prevalent in camps which engaged less
in real-life reciprocity8”
Yes, actual food-sharing does refer to instances of food-sharing, rather than
amount shared. We have made this clearer in the Methods section (lines 191-193):
“8number of days households shared food with one another was constructed (note
that this is instances of food-sharing, not amount shared).” We have also highlighted
this limitation of our actual food-sharing analysis (see reply to ‘Main Critique’),
although we believe that the results of the experimental Taking Game do provide
evidence that demand sharing is occurring in less stable camps.
357&358 This is also consistent with other experiments in other populations, unless
this counts toward a limited number of references, references evidencing that this is
common would strengthen this section.
Reply: In this section we have now included references to experiments which find
that repeated interactions increase cooperation (line 366).
397 The association with market integration (MI) may be spurious, as MI is
associated with other factors that may contribute to patterns of cooperation (such as
local population size—which your data indicate, as do cross-cultural results on other
experimental economics games) Marlowe et al 2008. More ‘altruistic’ punishment in
larger societies (listed above). If indeed frequency of interactions with strangers
versus kin or exchange partners is the reason for different patterns of reciprocity,
factors other than MI should be considered. There does not seem to be a strong
reason to jump to one particular proxy for these interactions in this paper.
Reply: While the association of cooperation with MI may indeed be spurious, we
believed it worthwhile to include as it has been one of the dominant frameworks from
which behaviour in experimental games has been interpreted. In previous versions
of this manuscript there was less emphasis on MI, yet reviewers suggested that a
more detailed discussion of how our results relate to MI would enhance the paper
and fit it into the wider literature on experimental games. We agree that reasons
other than MI explain variation in cooperation, and have discussed several of them in
the manuscript, including camp stability/repeated interactions, resource
availability/need, kinship, and group size.
416 This finding (number of offspring) was also found among the Hadza. See pp 166
of Marlowe, F. W. (2014). Better to Receive Than to Give: Hadza Behavior in Three
Experimental Economic Games. Experimenting with Social Norms: Fairness and
Punishment in Cross-Cultural Perspective: Fairness and Punishment in Cross-
Cultural Perspective, 161. He also found camp population size predicted results in
the UG (same paper)—which is similar to your results (even though larger camps are
due to seasonal variation rather than proximity to a village).
Reply: While we thank the reviewer for this reference, none of the results from the
tables in this paper indicate that those with a larger household size (as a proxy for
number of dependent offspring) were more cooperative in any of the three games
played (the Dictator Game, the Ultimatum Game, and the Third-Party Punishment
Game). Although the Marlowe paper found that cooperation was greater in larger
camps, in our experimental games among the Agta we find no evidence that camp
size influences levels of cooperation (although in the smaller real-world food-sharing
sample of only six camps larger camps did appear to display greater reciprocity).
433 “Although consanguineal kin presence did not influence the amount given” Is
this referring to the SG results? Again, it did not sound like amounts in actual sharing
were recorded—if not this needs to be reworded such that it does not sound like
amounts but rather instances/incidences.
Reply: For both of the experimental games two analyses were conducted, one
exploring how much individuals gave/took, and another exploring who they gave
to/took from. The ‘amounts’ referred to here are levels of cooperation in the
experimental games, and not the actual food-sharing data (in which instances, rather
than amounts, were analysed). We have edited the text to resolve any possible
ambiguity (lines 455-458): “Although consanguineal kin presence did not influence
the amount given in the experimental games, Agta preferentially gave to kin when
they distributed resources, both in the SG (see also [53,54]) and in patterns of actual
food-sharing.”
452-453 This would have more impact if the observed range, and average camp size
in the population were described numerically and given a bit of context. How do
these compare to the average local group size of other subsistence strategies, or
other hunter-gatherer groups?
Reply: We have altered this section to compare Agta camp sizes to that of other
hunter-gatherer populations to put these findings in a wider context (lines 475-479):
“Of the camps testes here, group sizes (minimum = 25, maximum = 119, average =
51.9) fall within the range of other hunter-gatherers (minimum = 13, maximum = 250,
average = 37.5; [56]), albeit with a slightly higher mean, suggesting that group size
may not be a limiting factor to cooperation in hunter-gatherers within the observed
range.”
457-460 This should be carefully worded, as several ethnographers present both
types of data and discuss how they inter-relate—simply not in the same article (e.g.
Kim Hill, Frank Marlowe, John Ziker).
Reply: We agree that previous researchers using experimental games do link this to
real-world behaviour such as food-sharing, but often this is in a qualitative manner.
When researchers investigate the association between game and real-world
behaviour quantitatively the correspondence appears rather low (see refs [57-59]).
Our study presents the first quantified correspondence between game and real-world
behaviour in a small-scale society. It is the quantified correspondence in our paper
which makes this association novel. We have highlighted this in lines 486-487: “This
association is presumed, and often inferred qualitatively, but rarely tested in a
quantifiable manner.”
Appendix C
This paper is a valuable contribution to the field. Most of my previous concerns
were addressed in the last revision, however, some concerns have not really been
addressed. I have listed these in a dialogue-type format, with my original comments,
authors’ reply, and my most recent assessment of the issue.
Original review--Line 206—This would benefit from more detail on in and out of
camp mobility. Over what time period is this calculated, and how was this
operationalized? For instance, if a visitor arrives for an hour and leaves, does this
affect the in-camp stability measure? Also, more detail on out-of camp mobility
would help. Additionally, what is the average mobility for this group (# moves per
year, average length of residency in camp, etc). Do camps entirely reform (0
stability), and if so, how often? In terms of understanding broader implications of
this paper, it would be great to see how different camps compared (very generally)
to other H-G societies (you could find measures of this in Kelly’s book).
Reply: As noted in the main text we refer the reader to Section 3 of the
Supplementary Material for specific details on how camp stability was calculated and
operationalized. Briefly, by assessing camp membership over multiple visits and
noting who had moved in, moved out, or remained over time, it was possible to
derive an index of camp stability, from ‘0’ (meaning complete change in camp
composition) to ‘1’ (meaning no change in camp composition). Each census was
taken upon entering a camp. Any subsequent mobility occurring after the census,
such as an individual arriving and then leaving half an hour later, would not
therefore affect this measure. From this data it was only possible to examine
whether an individual was present in a certain camp over multiple visits, and not
other measures of mobility, such as the number of moves per year or the average
length of residency in camp. The average figure for days between moves among the
Agta is estimated to be 12.5, but obviously this will vary depending on camp stability.
While important, these measures are less relevant for the current study as they do
not directly assess levels of repeated interactions between individuals, which our
measure of camp stability does.
New reviewer comments--
The authors say that variable times between visits should not affect camp stability
measures, but it is not clear to me why this would be the case. Providing descriptive
statistics on the timing of visits (at least a measure of the maximum time between
visits and variability in visit timing between camp visits from camp to camp) seems
important. An example of why this seems important—if I visit a camp in the rainy
season, then again in the dry season (2-3 months later), camp stability could be zero.
In contrast, if I visited the camp in the rainy season and again the next rainy season
(6-8 months later), it is possible than camp stability could be close to 1. This is
because camps may be (in some hunter-gatherer societies) occupied seasonally, and
so a camp location can appear highly stable or completely unstable depending on
the exact time of each visit.
Seasonality affects both camp size and camp stability in the short term (in many
hunter-gatherer populations). If this is not the case for the Agta, this would be
important to note, and would give the reader more confidence in the camp stability
sampling. If it is the case that seasonality (even due to wage labour in rice fields)
affects mobility, please describe the timing of the visits in greater detail and explain
why these measures are believed to be robust.
273, 293, 294 If some camps are more involved in harvesting rice, this may be
problematic, as there may be norms of sharing rice established in rice producing
camps, but not in foraging camps. Perhaps rice production and food storage should
be controls. In the results we see more variables (dependent offspring, etc.) that
were not mentioned before. A table of variables of interest in the methods section
(dependent, independent and controls) would really help the reader, rather than a
stream of mentions of various variables throughout the results.
Reply: As mentioned above, even camps not currently engaged in harvesting rice still
acquire many of their calories from rice traded with farmers for foraged goods.
Conversely, even camps which engage more in harvesting rice still participate in
foraging. As rice harvesting is seasonal, at other times of the year they invest more in
foraging. This has been clarified in the Supplementary Materials (lines 18-21): “The
Agta engage in a flexible mixed subsistence economy, meaning that individuals or
camps involved in harvesting rice (or wage labor) still forage alongside this
agricultural/labor work, while often returning to a predominantly foraging mode of
subsistence post-harvest (or post-labor).” To make a sharp distinction between
foraging and non-foraging camps would be misleading.
Whether one takes rice harvesting and storage as controls or independent variables
is largely a matter of perspective; they do not change the results of the analysis. As
there is no evidence of colinearity between harvesting rice and possessing stored
rice (see table S4 in Supplementary Material), indicating that even individuals not
involved in harvesting rice still possess stores of it, this argues against an
interpretation that camps involved in harvesting rice have more experience sharing
it (see lines 56-60 in Supplementary Material). We would therefore argue that
harvesting rice and storage are measures of need and availability, rather than
familiarity or cultural salience with rice, meaning that they should be seen as
independent, rather than control, variables.
New reviewer comments:
I think this argument confuses cultural salience/norms of sharing with familiarity.
Many hunter-gatherers are involved with wage labor (currency) or agriculture
(grain)…this does not mean that they have the same norms of sharing/giving/taking
those products as they do foraged products—and their approaches to sharing/taking
might be influenced by participation in that market (e.g. harvesting). The text
discusses market integration (familiarity with norms of market exchange) as a
possible explanation for findings of variation in cooperation. However, the text does
not seem to consider that norms around rice may correspond to market exchanges,
or conversely may be considered a non-market item along with other, traditional
foods.
This does not undermine the study—but potential effects from this should be
considered more fully than they have been in the text thus far (reference cultural
norm effects). Very few readers will be naïve enough to think this is a dichotomous
variable (e.g. uses rice versus does not use rice), but asserting that all Agta use rice
does not negate the question of whether norms of sharing are adequately captured
by an experiment using rice in a hunter-gatherer population. Again, the study would
be no less valuable if these concerns would be addressed head on.
See :
Lesorogol, C. K. (2007). Bringing norms in. Current anthropology, 48(6), 920-926.
McCall, G. S. (2000). Ju/'hoansi adaptations to a cash economy. African Sociological
Review/Revue Africaine de Sociologie, 4(1), 138-155.
Appendix D
Response to Referees
Reviewer 1:
This paper is a valuable contribution to the field. Most of my previous concerns were
addressed in the last revision, however, some concerns have not really been
addressed. I have listed these in a dialogue-type format, with my original comments,
authors’ reply, and my most recent assessment of the issue.
New reply: We again thank reviewer 1 for helpful comments and suggestions. We
have followed the format of the reviewer and included our new replies underneath
the new reviewer comments.
Original review--Line 206—This would benefit from more detail on in and out of camp
mobility. Over what time period is this calculated, and how was this operationalized?
For instance, if a visitor arrives for an hour and leaves, does this affect the in-camp
stability measure? Also, more detail on out-of camp mobility would help. Additionally,
what is the average mobility for this group (# moves per year, average length of
residency in camp, etc). Do camps entirely reform (0 stability), and if so, how often?
In terms of understanding broader implications of this paper, it would be great to see
how different camps compared (very generally) to other H-G societies (you could find
measures of this in Kelly’s book).
Original reply: As noted in the main text we refer the reader to Section 3 of the
Supplementary Material for specific details on how camp stability was calculated and
operationalized. Briefly, by assessing camp membership over multiple visits and
noting who had moved in, moved out, or remained over time, it was possible to
derive an index of camp stability, from ‘0’ (meaning complete change in camp
composition) to ‘1’ (meaning no change in camp composition). Each census was
taken upon entering a camp. Any subsequent mobility occurring after the census,
such as an individual arriving and then leaving half an hour later, would not therefore
affect this measure. From this data it was only possible to examine whether an
individual was present in a certain camp over multiple visits, and not other measures
of mobility, such as the number of moves per year or the average length of residency
in camp. The average figure for days between moves among the Agta is estimated
to be 12.5, but obviously this will vary depending on camp stability. While important,
these measures are less relevant for the current study as they do not directly assess
levels of repeated interactions between individuals, which our measure of camp
stability does.
New reviewer comments--
The authors say that variable times between visits should not affect camp stability
measures, but it is not clear to me why this would be the case. Providing descriptive
statistics on the timing of visits (at least a measure of the maximum time between
visits and variability in visit timing between camp visits from camp to camp) seems
important. An example of why this seems important—if I visit a camp in the rainy
season, then again in the dry season (2-3 months later), camp stability could be
zero. In contrast, if I visited the camp in the rainy season and again the next rainy
season (6-8 months later), it is possible than camp stability could be close to 1. This
is because camps may be (in some hunter-gatherer societies) occupied seasonally,
and so a camp location can appear highly stable or completely unstable depending
on the exact time of each visit.
Seasonality affects both camp size and camp stability in the short term (in many
hunter-gatherer populations). If this is not the case for the Agta, this would be
important to note, and would give the reader more confidence in the camp stability
sampling. If it is the case that seasonality (even due to wage labour in rice fields)
affects mobility, please describe the timing of the visits in greater detail and explain
why these measures are believed to be robust.
New reply: We acknowledge that seasonality has the potential to influence patterns
of hunter-gatherer mobility, but do not believe that it has affected our measure of
camp stability. All of our census data were collected during the dry season and there
were no systematic biases in the months sampled between stable and unstable
camps. A new table has been included in the Supplementary Material (table S7)
detailing the dates visited and lengths of time between visits for each camp. Section
3 of the Supplementary Material (page 9) has also been altered to read “Although
seasonality can influence hunter-gatherer mobility patterns [8], and the Agta are
generally less mobile during the rainy season from October to February [9], the
present research was conducted during the dry season and there were no
systematic biases between the months in which stable or unstable camps were
visited (table S7). Differential mobility between camps cannot therefore be attributed
to seasonality effects, such as climate or variation in wage labour opportunities (e.g.,
rice harvests).”
Original review--lines 273, 293, 294--If some camps are more involved in harvesting
rice, this may be problematic, as there may be norms of sharing rice established in
rice producing camps, but not in foraging camps. Perhaps rice production and food
storage should be controls. In the results we see more variables (dependent
offspring, etc.) that were not mentioned before. A table of variables of interest in the
methods section (dependent, independent and controls) would really help the reader,
rather than a stream of mentions of various variables throughout the results.
Original reply: As mentioned above, even camps not currently engaged in harvesting
rice still acquire many of their calories from rice traded with farmers for foraged
goods. Conversely, even camps which engage more in harvesting rice still
participate in foraging. As rice harvesting is seasonal, at other times of the year they
invest more in foraging. This has been clarified in the Supplementary Materials (lines
18-21): “The Agta engage in a flexible mixed subsistence economy, meaning that
individuals or camps involved in harvesting rice (or wage labor) still forage alongside
this agricultural/labor work, while often returning to a predominantly foraging mode of
subsistence post-harvest (or post-labor).” To make a sharp distinction between
foraging and non-foraging camps would be misleading.
Whether one takes rice harvesting and storage as controls or independent variables
is largely a matter of perspective; they do not change the results of the analysis. As
there is no evidence of colinearity between harvesting rice and possessing stored
rice (see table S4 in Supplementary Material), indicating that even individuals not
involved in harvesting rice still possess stores of it, this argues against an
interpretation that camps involved in harvesting rice have more experience sharing it
(see lines 56-60 in Supplementary Material). We would therefore argue that
harvesting rice and storage are measures of need and availability, rather than
familiarity or cultural salience with rice, meaning that they should be seen as
independent, rather than control, variables.
New reviewer comments:
I think this argument confuses cultural salience/norms of sharing with familiarity.
Many hunter-gatherers are involved with wage labor (currency) or agriculture
(grain)Ithis does not mean that they have the same norms of sharing/giving/taking
those products as they do foraged products—and their approaches to sharing/taking
might be influenced by participation in that market (e.g. harvesting). The text
discusses market integration (familiarity with norms of market exchange) as a
possible explanation for findings of variation in cooperation. However, the text does
not seem to consider that norms around rice may correspond to market exchanges,
or conversely may be considered a non-market item along with other, traditional
foods.
This does not undermine the study—but potential effects from this should be
considered more fully than they have been in the text thus far (reference cultural
norm effects). Very few readers will be naïve enough to think this is a dichotomous
variable (e.g. uses rice versus does not use rice), but asserting that all Agta use rice
does not negate the question of whether norms of sharing are adequately captured
by an experiment using rice in a hunter-gatherer population. Again, the study would
be no less valuable if these concerns would be addressed head on.
See:
Lesorogol, C. K. (2007). Bringing norms in. Current anthropology, 48(6), 920-926.
McCall, G. S. (2000). Ju/'hoansi adaptations to a cash economy. African Sociological
Review/Revue Africaine de Sociologie, 4(1), 138-155.
New reply: This is an important point and we have included a new paragraph in the
Discussion (lines 431-453) detailing these issues. “An important issue concerns
whether these patterns of experimental resource transfers using rice are
representative of wider hunter-gatherer food-sharing in other contexts, such as
foraged resources. The Agta have a long history of trade with their agricultural
neighbours over the past 2,000 years or so [45,46] and it has been argued that
hunter-gatherers in rainforest environments, such as the Agta, may not have been
able to survive without obtaining carbohydrates from farmers [47]. Although this
trade has likely intensified in recent years with increasing population growth and
expansion of farming populations, this suggests that the sharing of non-foraged
resources among the Agta has a strong historical precedent and may be equally as
salient as sharing foraged resources. The correspondence between experimental
game behaviour and real-world food-sharing indicates that rice is not distributed
differently relative to other resources, meaning that the sharing of rice in these
games may be a valid proxy for food-sharing more generally. Similarly, among the
horticultural Sursurunga in Papua New Guinea, distributions of money (a recently-
introduced resource) and betel nut (a traditional and widely-shared resource) were
equivalent in both Dictator and Ultimatum Games [48]. In other societies and with
other goods, however, resources may be distributed differently from one another.
Among Kenyan Samburu pastoralists money in a Dictator Game was shared
differently depending on whether contextual cues of meat-sharing were present or
not [49]. This topic requires further research to determine whether and under what
conditions there exists variation in sharing patterns between different resources in
experimental contexts. Nevertheless, among the Agta specifically the experimental
distribution of rice does appear to reflect wider food-sharing behaviour.”
Society Open
