Exotic invaders gain foraging benefits by shoaling with
native fish
Morelia Camacho-Cervantes, Constantino Macías Garcia, Alfredo F. Ojanguren, Anne E.
Magurran
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 1: 140101.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.140101
Review timeline
Original submission: 11 June 2014 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 25 September 2014 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 20 October 2014 appears in chronological order.
This article was transferred in from another journal without peer review.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-140101.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
N/A
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2014 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
See Appendix A.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept as is.
Comments to the Author(s)
A very good paper. I enjoyed reading it.
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3 (David Reznick)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments).
3
Comments to the Author(s)
General Comments: The authors present two experiments that characterize how guppies interact
with four different species of goodeids. In the first experiment, they show that a focal guppy with
six conspecifics forages more effectively then with three conspecifics, then shows that they do
equally well with three conspecifics and three individuals of different species of goodeids. The
really interesting result is that three species of goodeids were substitutable for guppies, but one
was not. When a focal guppy was grouped with three other guppies plus three individuals from
this fourth species of goodeid (G. vivparous) their foraging performance was indistinguishable
from what it was when there were only three other guppies present. This one contrary result
argues that there is something specific about the behavioral interactions between guppies and
three of the four species of goodeids that makes them exchangeable with one another. The second
experiment showed that guppies were also less likely to shoal with G. viviparous than with the
other three species of goodeid.
The experiments appear to have been well designed and executed. The analyses are appropriate
and the results are clear. I note below that the final conclusion is very much of an overstatement,
but otherwise the authors do a good job demonstrating that guppies have plastic behavior that
enables them to interact with some other species of fish in the same way as they do members of
their own species. This plasticity would likely be advantageous when they are in the early stages
of an invasion and are rare relative to native species.
I read through the reviews and responses to the earlier version of this paper and feel that the
authors responded well. I suggest that they reconsider their having not responded to one
suggestion, which is whether or not guppies have invaded the native habitats of any of these
species and if there is anything known about how they interact with them in nature. While a full
response begs a different study, the authors did indicate that there were naturalized populations
of guppies in some of the streams where they collected their goodeids. It would help to add
something about this in the paper, as I state below in the “specific comments”.
Specific Comments:
Line 18: A minor detail, but these were not Trinidadian guppies. They were from an invasive
population in Mexico, probably of unknown origin. The native habitat is far more extensive than
Trinidad.
Lines 135-138: I assume that these lines pertain to both experiments, but I only see on analysis
and can only be certain that it pertains to the first experiment. If so, then this paragraph should
precede the description of the second experiment. If there are no size differences in either
experiment, then say so, but then also report two sets of statistics. If this paragraph only pertains
to the first experiment, why was the comparison not made for the second experiment?
Lines 139-152: I assume that the first paragraph applies to the first experiment and the second
paragraph to the second. It would help to refer to each experiment by name in the topic sentence.
Lines 172-3: You could also add a bit of clarity to the sentence by modifying the last phrase to say:
“…but equally likely to associate with the other three species as with conspecifics.”
Lines 194-5: Modify to: “This effect, which leaves more time for feeding, occurs …”
Lines 214-5: Do you mean that the native habitat has already been invaded (not would already
have been invaded)? More to the point, can you tell us whether or not guppies were found at the
sites where you collected your fish? Also, were there guppies where you found G. viviparous?
You must have field notes from when you collected these fish for the study and perhaps have
notes from other sites. This paper would benefit from more natural history so make use of it here
if you have it.
4
Lines 227-230: This is an overstatement. This study just shows that heterospecifics are
exchangeable for conspecifics in the way shoals affect foraging behavior in guppies. This
behavioral plasticity may well be a factor that helps guppies be successful invaders.
Table 1: I don’t think this table is necessary. The explanation in the text is sufficient plus we can
infer the structure of the experiment from the figures.
Table 2: The column labels are confusing. Does the “conspecific” column mean that the guppy is
the first to get the food and the “heterospecific” means that the goodeid is the first to get the
food? If so, then I suggest you label the columns “guppy first” and “heterospecific first”.A very
good paper. I enjoyed reading it.
label_end_comment
Decision letter
16-Sep-2014
Dear Miss Camacho-Cervantes
Apologies for the delay to your paper, as I mentioned before this is because the previous referee
declined to review the paper. The Subject Editor assigned to your paper ("Exotic invaders gain
foraging benefits by shoaling with native fish") has now received comments from reviewers. We
would like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor
suggestions which can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please
note this decision does not guarantee eventual acceptance. Please submit a copy of your revised
paper within 14 days - if we do not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that
the paper has been withdrawn. In exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if
agreed with the Editorial Office in advance. Once submitted your paper may be returned to the
previous referees, or new ones if these are unavailable.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/bl and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."
Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been appended to
denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your Author
Centre. When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this
to document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Charlotte Wray
Senior Publishing Editor,
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
5
label_version_2
RSOS-140101.R1 (Revision)
Authors' response to original reviewers' comments
See Appendix B.
label_version_3
RSOS-140101.R1 (Revision)
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 1
Recommendation
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
I am happy with these revisions - these amendments with regard to M&M, diet and size, have
greatly improved the clarity of the paper.
Exotic invaders gain foraging benefits by shoaling with native fish
Journal: Royal Society Open Science
Submitted: July 2014
Morelia Camacho-Cervantes, Constantino Macías Garcia, Alfredo F. Ojanguren, Anne E.
Magurran
This is an interesting and for the most part very well written MS that suggests one reason for
the global successful of a small tropical invasive fish, the guppy, is its ability to shoal and
competitively forage with native fish. A laboratory experiment showing the foraging benefits
of guppies are similar when they shoal with heterospecifics as oppose to conspecifics
appears to support this hypothesis. The mechanism though is not a novel suggestion as
indicated by the authors themselves, at least with regard to shoaling (Camacho-Cervantes et
al. 2014 Behaviour). With regard to the foraging test, food pellets were placed at the bottom
of tanks and yet guppies are typically surface feeders? What is the typical foraging behavior
of the other species? All fish were fed on flakes prior to the lab experiment, but were the
different species held in the lab for the same time period? Assume fish were also fed on
flakes at the end of each experimental day too? Generally, I agree with previous reviewers
that the foraging trials may just reflect different foraging mechanism of the different fish
species.
Most importantly, size variation is insufficiently explained. Does “size” on L135 refer to SL, FL
or Body Condition? Please give the actual “size” ranges of the fish used. Also although the
authors state that there was no significant size variation within shoals, what about between
shoals, both conspecific and heterospecific? Without this information, in my opinion, the
results of this study can just not be evaluated because of the overriding preference of fish to
size select their shoaling partners.
The data recorded is unclear, namely L123 “The shoal was observed for 10 min” and yet the
only data recorded was time taken for focal fish to find the food, and the duration of time it
spent feeding on the food? Data presented in the results indicates observations were also
made on the non-focal fish?
In addition, it would be useful to gather data from the wild with regard to the specific
conspecific and heterospecific shoaling tendency of guppies.
Minor Points
Both min/minutes used in M&M.
Table 1 is confusing – unclear how the 22 replicates, for instance, are distributed amongst
the different foraging treatments. Are the same fish used for both experiments? This was
clearly a question raised by a previous reviewer and is still not clear in sections of the
current MS, including the M&M.
Table 2 – Treatment is mis-spelt. The number 3 pre-ceding each species in the first column –
what does this refer to?
Fig 2 Legend should remind the reader – the species of the focal fish.
University of St Andrews
Centre for Biological Diversity
St Andrews
KY16 9TH
th
24 September 2014
Dear Charlotte Wray,
Many thanks for your suggestions to improve our manuscript (RSOS-
140101 – “Exotic invaders gain foraging benefits by shoaling with
native fish").
We are submitting a revised manuscript incorporating the comments
and suggestions made by the three reviewers plus a few minor
alterations in the main body of the text.
We are very grateful for the reviewer’s conscientious and constructive
feedback, which has undoubtedly improved the manuscript. Below are
the specific changes we have made in response to the comments.
Yours sincerely,
Morelia Camacho-Cervantes
Reviewer 1
With regard to the foraging test, food pellets were placed at the bottom
of tanks and yet guppies are typically surface feeders? What is the
typical foraging behavior of the other species? All fish were fed on
flakes prior to the lab experiment, but were the different species held
in the lab for the same time period? Assume fish were also fed on
flakes at the end of each experimental day too? Generally, I agree with
previous reviewers that the foraging trials may just reflect different
foraging mechanism of the different fish species.
To the best of our knowledge, foraging patterns of all the species used
in this experiment are very similar. P. reticulata forages in the surface
as well as in the bottom. Z. tequila tend to eat more at the bottom, but
it does it also on the surface. S. bilineata tends to eat more at the
surface and less at the bottom. X. eiseni and G. viviparous forage more
or less equally on the surface and at the bottom. All species used in
this experiment eat plants and detritus, and smaller animals. Guppies
are generalist and opportunistic, they would eat what they find
available. Materials and Methods section was modified to add this
information as follows: “In the wild, species used in this study have
similar foraging patterns and forage from similar sources: plants,
detritus and smaller animals (Froese and Pauly 2013). Nevertheless,
Zoogoneticus tequila is, among the species used in these experiments,
the most likely to feed at the bottom (Macias-Garcia 2013).”
Fish were fed with flakes daily and with pellets during the trials to
avoid biased results due to different laboratory treatment of the wild
fish. All fish were kept for roughly the same time in the lab. A section
as follows was added in the materials and methods section: “All fish
were collected from either the wild or outdoor ponds within a two-
week period, and carefully transported in plastic bags half filled with
water and half filled with air to the laboratory, where they remained
for roughly the same amount of time (ca. 12 days) before trials.”
We added a section in the discussion section to address the
reviewers concern on our results reflecting different foraging
mechanism of the different fish species, which we do not believe.
Section as follows: “We refer to goodeinae fish as topminnows because
they, as the guppies, regularly forage at the water surface, yet they
also forage at the bottom, and it has been reported that Zoogoneticus
spp. is more likely to forage from the substrate than other Goodeid
genera [45]. Thus it is possible that our protocol made topminnows
more likely to find the food pellets than the guppies. If so, the fact that
female guppies were better able to find and consume pellets at the
bottom when shoaling with topminnows is evidence that their
behaviour is flexible enough to allow them to benefit from shoaling
with native species. It must be noted, however, that guppy females are
also likely to forage at the bottom under some circumstances [31],
which may explain why they were also able to locate food faster and
spend more time foraging when in larger shoals of conspecifics.”
Size variation is insufficiently explained. Does “size” on L135 refer to
SL, FL or Body Condition? Please give the actual “size” ranges of the
fish used. Also although the authors state that there was no
significant size variation within shoals, what about between shoals,
both conspecific and heterospecific? Without this information, in my
opinion, the results of this study can just not be evaluated because of
the overriding preference of fish to size select their shoaling partners.
Information on the SL size of all fish was included.
To ensure that size had no significant effect in our results we size-
sorted all fish. Still, we tested if the standard length of the focal and
the average standard length of the shoal fish (i.e. relative size of the
focal) was different across treatments, differences were non
significant. In the same way, we found that relative size of the focal
fish did not explain its behaviour. These results are detailed in the
fifth paragraph of Materials and Methods.
The data recorded is unclear, namely L123 “The shoal was observed
for 10 min” and yet the only data recorded was time taken for focal
fish to find the food, and the duration of time it spent feeding on the
food? Data presented in the results indicates observations were also
made on the non-focal fish?
Behaviour of the non-focal fish was only recorded when a non-focal
fish located the food first. The text was amended as follows: “The shoal
was observed for 10 minutes to determine both the time (s) and
species of the first fish to locate the food. We recorded the time (s) it
took the first fish to locate the food and also the time (s) it took to the
focal guppy to do it. We then recorded the time spent foraging by the
focal guppy female during the rest of the trial.”
In addition, it would be useful to gather data from the wild with regard
to the specific conspecific and heterospecific shoaling tendency of
guppies.
Although we did not make systematic observations in the wild, it is
common to see goodeinaes in association with guppies. Indeed, when
catching individuals for these experiment, fish collected in the nets
included more than one species, which is evidence of different species
sharing the same habitat.
Both min/minutes used in M&M.
We changed to minutes in all cases.
Table 1 is confusing – unclear how the 22 replicates, for instance, are
distributed amongst the different foraging treatments. Are the same
fish used for both experiments? This was clearly a question raised by
a previous reviewer and is still not clear in sections of the current MS,
including the M&M.
As suggested by Reviewer 3, Table 1 was deleted from the manuscript.
Table 2 – Treatment is mis-spelt. The number 3 pre-ceding each
species in the first column – what does this refer to?
Misspelt fixed and number three refer to the number of individuals of
each species. Numbers were deleted and a note was added in the
legend as follows to make it clearer: “All treatments included three
individuals of each species.”
Fig 2 Legend should remind the reader – the species of the focal fish.
Legend was amended as follows:
“Time (max = 600 s, in a log scale) the guppy focal fish took to find the
food…”
Reviewer 2
A very good paper. I enjoyed reading it.
Reviewer 3
Line 18 - A minor detail, but these were not Trinidadian guppies. They
were from an invasive population in Mexico, probably of unknown
origin. The native habitat is far more extensive than Trinidad.
Text was changed as follows: “Here we used guppies (Poecilia
reticulata) from a feral population in Mexico to test the prediction that
exotic…”
Lines 135-138: I assume that these lines pertain to both experiments,
but I only see one analysis and can only be certain that it pertains to
the first experiment. If so, then this paragraph should precede the
description of the second experiment. If there are no size differences
in either experiment, then say so, but then also report two sets of
statistics. If this paragraph only pertains to the first experiment, why
was the comparison not made for the second experiment?
Size was included as a covariate in the analysis and since it had no
effect it was removed for clarity. Paragraph was amended as follows:
“Standard length of the fish used in these experiments ranged from
17.21 mm to 35.1 mm. However, the shoals and focals were size
assorted trying to minimise differences in size that could influence
behaviour. Average (± SD) difference between the standard length (SL)
of the focal and the average SL of the shoal fish (i.e. relative size of the
focal fish) was -0.6 ± 1.5 mm (ranging from –4.1 to 3.2 mm), and was
not significantly different across treatments of shoal composition
(ANOVA, F5,126= 0.72 P = 0.61). However, the analyses were performed
including difference in size as a covariate. Since neither difference in
size (F < 0.783, P > 0.39) nor the interaction between difference in size
and treatment (F < 0.465, P > 0.5) had a significant effect, we
concluded that size did not play a role in foraging or association
patterns in this experiment. Therefore, for the benefit of clarity, the
results section only presents the analyses with treatment as the main
factor.”
Lines 139-152: I assume that the first paragraph applies to the first
experiment and the second paragraph to the second. It would help to
refer to each experiment by name in the topic sentence.
Done.
Lines 172-3: You could also add a bit of clarity to the sentence by
modifying the last phrase to say: “…but equally likely to associate
with the other three species as with conspecifics.”
Done.
Lines 194-5: Modify to: “This effect, which leaves more time for
feeding, occurs …”
Done.
Lines 214-5: Do you mean that the native habitat has already been
invaded (not would already have been invaded)? More to the point,
can you tell us whether or not guppies were found at the sites where
you collected your fish? Also, were there guppies where you found G.
viviparous? You must have field notes from when you collected these
fish for the study and perhaps have notes from other sites. This
paper would benefit from more natural history so make use of it here
if you have it.
Sentence changed to: “The natural habitat of most of the topminnow
species used in this study has already been invaded to a lesser or
greater extent -and often intermittently- by guppies.”
Species of goodeidae fish used in this experiment were collected in
sites were guppies were not present, to avoid familiarization with the
species. However, in the site we collected guppies there were other
goodeidae species and guppies were seen associating with them. This
information was added as follows: “Indeed, in the site were we
collected guppies for this study (Ahuisculco, Jalisco) they were in
close association with other species, as inferred from the fact that we
found more than one species in our nets.”
Lines 227-230: This is an overstatement. This study just shows that
heterospecifics are exchangeable for conspecifics in the way shoals
affect foraging behavior in guppies. This behavioral plasticity may
well be a factor that helps guppies be successful invaders.
Sentence was amended as follows:
“Our results suggest that plastic social behaviour could help invading
species to overcome initial numerical disadvantages and become
successful invaders.”
Table 1: I don’t think this table is necessary. The explanation in the
text is sufficient plus we can infer the structure of the experiment
from the figures.
Table 1 was deleted.
Table 2: The column labels are confusing. Does the “conspecific”
column mean that the guppy is the first to get the food and the
“heterospecific” means that the goodeid is the first to get the food? If
so, then I suggest you label the columns “guppy first” and
“heterospecific first”.
Columns were labeled as suggested by the reviewer.
Froese, R. and D. Pauly. 2013. FishBase. Page World Wide Web
electronic publication.
Macias-Garcia, C. 2013. Mode of reproduction, mate choice, and
species richness in goodeid fish. Pages 253-288 in R. Macedo
and G. Machado, editors. Sexual selection, perspectives and
models from the Neotropics. Elsevier.
Society Open
