Restricted grouper reproductive migrations support
community-based management
Peter A. Waldie, Glenn R. Almany, Tane H. Sinclair-Taylor, Richard J. Hamilton, Tapas
Potuku, Mark A. Priest, Kevin L. Rhodes, Jan Robinson, Joshua E. Cinner and Michael L.
Berumen
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 150694.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150694
Review timeline
Original submission: 15 December 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 12 February 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 12 February 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150694.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Thierry Brule)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes it is clear from reading the paper how to access all supporting data (See manuscript Page 16;
line 376).
Supplementary material beautifully illustrate the paper content.
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
I do not feel qualified to assess the statistics
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
Overall this is an interesting and convincing manuscript. While not of the information presented
about spawning migration of E. fuscoguttatus is totally new (see Rhodes et al., 2012 cited in the
manuscript), I consider this remains an important contribution to the literature on community
based management for grouper which migrate to aggregate to spawn. Epinpehelus fuscoguttatus
is"highly vulnerable to overfishing as it is relatively uncommon and appears to use only a few
spawning aggregation sites". Therefore "protection of these sites is a high priority and should
include migratory corridors" (Pears R., 2012. Species Case Studies. Brown-Marble Grouper-
Epinephelus fuscoguttatus. In : Sadovy de Mitcheson Y., Colin P.L., editors. Reef Fish Spawning
Aggregations: Biology, Research and management. Netherlands: Springer; p. 406-412.).
A few minor comments are listed below that the authors should address prior final acceptance.
INTRODUCTION
1) I think it should be informative to explain what are the main reproductive characteristics and
fishery aspects of E. fuscoguttatus from Dyual Island. When the species do aggregate to spawn
during the year (duration of the spawning season and peak spawning)? Who and how was
validated the E. fuscoguttatus Bolsurik spawning aggregation? How important is the capture of
E. fuscoguttatus in this region. What is the size range of captured fish?
2) I assume that the entire paragraph: “Social context and study site” is misplaced in
Introduction. Although it can be a little better integrated into the Materials and methods
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION.
3) One minor point of confusion for me concerns the movements of E. fuscoguttatus individuals
during the annual visitation of the FSA. Apparently during each spawning month, females and
males arrive and leave the FSA (see figure 2). Are the same mature active individuals who made
multiple migrations to and from the FSA each month during an annual spawning season? If there
are the same, where there are going between two or more successive visitations of the FSA during
the spawning season? Probably within the openly fished area where they were vulnerable to
fishing? If it is right, I think that the authors could be more critic about the degree of efficiency of
the current LMMA in protecting the “spawning stock” (see lines 303-305, page 13). Perhaps the
authors could clarify this point a little better.
4) Are other management measures than LMMA implemented to protect this aggregating species
in this region? Moreover expanding the LMMA, could be also ecologically efficient and socially
acceptable proposing a fishing temporal closure for the catchment area (during peak spawning)
and a minimum size limit for this species?
5) FIGURE 1: should be possible to indicate the boundaries of the current LMMA for the Bolsurik
FSA site?
3
6) Figure 2: the legend needs to better explain what represent the numbers (of fish?) and
horizontal ranges (of arrival and departure days?) indicated for each calendar and lunar month.
REFERENCES.
7) Scientific names of species should be italicized lines: 443; 449; 455; 492.
7) Line 402 (page 17) replace “Comanagement” with “Co-management”.
END OF COMMENT
Thierry Brulé
CINVESTAV-IPN Unidad Mérida
Recursos del Mar
Antigua Carretera a Progreso Km. 6
A.P. 73 Cordemex, C.P. 97310 Mérida, Yucatán, México
tbrule@mda.cinvestav.mx
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Robert Humston)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript by Waldie et al (“Restricted group reproductive migrations support community-
based management”) describes research on the movement patterns (spawning migrations) of
grouper (E. fuscoguttatus) relative to the boundaries of a spatial fishery closure intended to
protect spawning aggregations for that species. They use data derived from acoustic telemetry
and tag returns to describe migration routes and post-spawning distribution of the local grouper
population, and compare this with the potential scale of spatial management measures as
supported by interviews with resident stakeholders. As the authors state in the introduction, this
4
research has substantial implications for spatially directed management in coral reef fisheries as
spawning aggregations are highly localized and closed areas tend to be small. The combination
of data on fish movement and resident perspectives is very effective for demonstrating that
limited expansion of the spatial closure is: 1) tenable among stakeholders; and, 2) likely to
enhance management of local grouper population. The data collected are analyzed appropriately
and I have no major concerns about the manuscript. I have some minor concerns about the
potential bias from “distance weighting” in their estimated dispersal kernels (detailed below),
and suggest it is important for the authors to address this possible source of bias in the discussion
of their results. I recommend the manuscript be accepted after minor revision.
Comments:
1) Albanese et al (2003, Trans Am Fish Soc 132:925-939) described how the spatial scale of
recapture effort can affect the estimate of movement parameters (median movement distance,
kernel shape, etc.) in mark-recapture studies. In the acoustic receiver array employed in the
study, sampling is most intense in areas within 2 km of the spawning site. It is therefore not
surprising that most observations both during and outside the spawning season likewise occur
on those receivers within 2 km of the spawning site. This would bias the shape of fitted dispersal
kernel by underrepresenting those individuals that reside in more distant locations, and might
not pass by the sparsely-distributed acoustic receivers outside this 2-km radius on their spawning
migrations (or might not be detected, as the authors explain as well on line 251).
It is also feasible that the number of visitations an individual makes to the FSA during the
spawning season is inversely correlated with the distance they must migrate to reach it (i.e. the
distance to their resident area). Since tagging effort was spread out over more than one spawning
month, it seems that individuals that reside closer to the FSA would have a higher likelihood of
being captured and tagged. This aspect of the species’ behavior could therefore increase the
potential for distance weighting in the movement data.
The authors do note that their data represent “minimum distances” of migration and recognize
that underestimating migration distances would be problematic. However, they do not address
the fact that the design of their sampling (acoustic) array limits their ability to detect those
individuals that reside far outside the FSA. It is telling that three recaptures of tagged fish
occurred within roughly 2 km of the most distant receiver, and yet no “non-spawning detections”
were recorded at same this location (Fig. 1). I agree with the authors when they state that (line
332 approx) the fact that these individuals show high non-spawning site fidelity does suggest that
they can accurately determine the non-spawning ‘resident’ location for an individual, IF it is
detected by receivers at that location. However, this does not reduce the bias created by low
acoustic sampling effort in the areas > 2 km from the FSA.
I do not believe that this undermines the authors’ conclusions completely. The practical realities
of sampling always limit the scale of effort. However, this is a relatively small sample size for
estimating a dispersal kernel and the effect of distance weighting bias could be significant for the
reasons I describe above. I suggest that the authors should address this source of bias in their
discussion. Perhaps comparing the observed migration distances from this study with those
from other studies for this or other Epinephelus spp. would lend insight into the potential scale of
bias. The authors can explain that the main implications of this bias would be to reduce the
estimated fraction of the population that could be protected by an expansion of the LMMA to 2
km. Changing the kernel parameters to increase average migration distance (perhaps to match
one previously estimated in a different study) would allow the authors to demonstrate the
potential impact that underestimating migration distance would have on the fraction of the
population protected by the increased protected area. Most likely this would illustrate that the
conservation returns would still be substantial even if a smaller fraction is protected. The authors
5
could also consider extending this analysis to estimate the change in spawning stock biomass
from the increased spatial closure and / or resulting increase in population fecundity.
2) A common problem with spatial closures is lack of enforcement, and this appears to be a
problem even in this small closed area as you describe. Expanding the closed area boundary may
be supported by the community (line 341) but it will substantially increase the burden on
enforcement. This complicates the otherwise simple conclusion that expanding boundaries is
favorable because it increases conservation returns and is supported by stakeholders. Expanding
boundaries without concomitantly increasing enforcement effort could lead to negative returns
(increased poaching in the FSA due to diffuse enforcement) rather than positive returns. The
authors should consider this in their discussion and conclusions, perhaps providing more detail
on how this community-based system of regulation structures enforcement.
Apart from these concerns, I feel the authors have done an excellent job presenting this study (the
figures are particularly engaging) and their research addresses an important aspect of fisheries
management and natural resource management more broadly. I hope my comments will prove
helpful as they revise the manuscript for publication.
Sincerely,
Robert Humston
Washington and Lee University
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150694)
22-Jan-2016
Dear Mr Waldie,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Restricted grouper reproductive migrations support
community-based management") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like
you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can
be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does
not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 14-Feb-2016). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
6
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150694
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
7
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Allinson,
Editorial Coordinator, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150694)
See Appendix A.
Appendix A
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
Overall this is an interesting and convincing manuscript. While not of the information presented
about spawning migration of E. fuscoguttatus is totally new (see Rhodes et al., 2012 cited in the
manuscript), I consider this remains an important contribution to the literature on community based
management for grouper which migrate to aggregate to spawn. Epinpehelus fuscoguttatus is"highly
vulnerable to overfishing as it is relatively uncommon and appears to use only a few spawning
aggregation sites". Therefore "protection of these sites is a high priority and should include
migratory corridors" (Pears R., 2012. Species Case Studies. Brown-Marble Grouper- Epinephelus
fuscoguttatus. In : Sadovy de Mitcheson Y., Colin P.L., editors. Reef Fish Spawning Aggregations:
Biology, Research and management. Netherlands: Springer; p. 406-412.).
A few minor comments are listed below that the authors should address prior final acceptance.
INTRODUCTION
1) I think it should be informative to explain what are the main reproductive characteristics and
fishery aspects of E. fuscoguttatus from Dyual Island.
We have now included the basic demographic characteristics from the only currently available study
for this species, performed on the Great Barrier Reef, Australia (Pears et al., 2006, 2007). Specifically
we now state; “Here we focus on the brown-marbled grouper Epinephelus fuscoguttatus (Forsskål,
1775), a coral reef fish that forms FSAs throughout its range and is listed as Near Threatened on the
IUCN Red list [21,22]. Analysis from the Great Barrier Reef, Australia, reveals life-history
characteristics of E. fuscoguttatus which are associated with increased vulnerability to overfishing
[23]; large size (growing to approximately 1 m in length), late-maturity (age at 50% female maturity –
9 years), and longevity (maximum age 42 years) [24].” Unfortunately, reproductive characteristics
and fishery information are not yet available for the study region.
When the species do aggregate to spawn during the year (duration of the spawning season and peak
spawning)? Who and how was validated the E. fuscoguttatus Bolsurik spawning aggregation?
We have now included information from (Hamilton et al., 2011) in the section ‘Social context and
study site’, specifically we state; “Epinephelus fuscoguttatus aggregate at the FSA site to spawn (as
validated by significantly increased densities, and the presence of gravid females) for approximately
one week leading up to new moon, for 4-5 months annually, between March and July. Peak densities
are generally observed in May [15].”
How important is the capture of E. fuscoguttatus in this region.
We have clarified the importance of E. fuscoguttatus to fisheries throughout its range and the local
region. Specifically we now state; “Epinephelus fuscoguttatus is a highly prized target of subsistence,
artisanal, and large-scale commercial fisheries throughout the Indo-Pacific, including Papua New
Guinea [21,25–30].”
What is the size range of captured fish?
The size range of captured fish is now reported in the results. Specially, we state; “Twenty male (578
– 811 mm TL) and nine female (505 – 654 mm TL) E. fuscoguttatus were fitted with acoustic
transmitters.”
2) I assume that the entire paragraph: “Social context and study site” is misplaced in Introduction.
Although it can be a little better integrated into the Materials and methods
This section has been moved to the beginning of the ‘Materials and Methods’ section, as suggested.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION.
3) One minor point of confusion for me concerns the movements of E. fuscoguttatus individuals
during the annual visitation of the FSA. Apparently during each spawning month, females and males
arrive and leave the FSA (see figure 2). Are the same mature active individuals who made multiple
migrations to and from the FSA each month during an annual spawning season? If there are the
same, where there are going between two or more successive visitations of the FSA during the
spawning season? Probably within the openly fished area where they were vulnerable to fishing? If it
is right, I think that the authors could be more critic about the degree of efficiency of the current
LMMA in protecting the “spawning stock” (see lines 303-305, page 13). Perhaps the authors could
clarify this point a little better.
We thank the reviewer for identifying this point of confusion. The reviewer is correct – all tagged
individuals moved into the openly fished area between each spawning month, and between
spawning seasons, and individuals were only protected within the current LMMA for a small
proportion of the study period. To ensure that this important point is clear, we have positioned the
relevant information more prominently, and edited the wording. At the beginning of the ‘Results’ –
‘Visitation to the FSA’ section, we now state; “Acoustic tagging data revealed that some tagged
individuals were present at the FSA site during 13 lunar months of the 24-month study period.
Although the number and length of visitations varied substantially between individuals (discussed in
detail below), no tagged individuals remained at the FSA site either between spawning months, or
between spawning seasons (figure 2). Over the 24-month study period, males spent a mean 35.66 (±
7.48; range, 6.30-88.66) days at the FSA site (and thus within the LMMA), compared with 11.3 (±
1.11; range, 9.27-13.10) days for females.” Further, at the beginning of the ‘Results’ – ‘Reproductive
migrations’ section, we now state; “All tagged individuals were detected moving away from the FSA
site (and thus out of the LMMA) between each spawning month, and between spawning seasons.”
Finally, we have clarified the level of protection that the current LMMA provides in the discussion.
Specifically, we now state; “Our study showed that the current LMMA was highly effective in
protecting the spawning stock during spawning events; with two possible exceptions, all tagged E.
fuscoguttatus that aggregated to spawn at Bolsurik remained within the LMMA boundaries
throughout their visits. However, individuals were protected within the no-take LMMA for a
relatively small proportion of the time; males and females spent around 95% and 98% of the two-
year study period within the openly fished area, respectively. Notably, one male returned to the FSA
during 11 spawning months, yet still resided outside of the LMMA for 88% of the study period. The
importance of protecting FSA sites is well established, and cannot be over-stated [16]; however this
study further emphasizes the importance of management encompassing, but not limited to, the FSA
site.”
4) Are other management measures than LMMA implemented to protect this aggregating species in
this region? Moreover expanding the LMMA, could be also ecologically efficient and socially
acceptable proposing a fishing temporal closure for the catchment area (during peak spawning) and
a minimum size limit for this species?
The reviewer is correct that a host of different options are available to manage this fishery. We have
clarified this point in the discussion, stating that; “It should be noted that these recommendations
are neither intended to be exhaustive, nor to imply their superiority in achieving social or ecological
goals. The establishment of a system of enforcement and the spatial expansion of the current LMMA
must be considered among a host of management measures, such as seasonal closures, and
restrictions on gear and effort – some of which have some existing stakeholder support (table 2).” In
the interests of clarity and concision we limited our detailed discussion to the management tools
which could be informed by the reported ecological data (i.e., no-take LMMAs, and periodically-
harvested LMMAs), and the primary concern communicated during stakeholder surveys (i.e., lack of
enforcement).
5) FIGURE 1: should be possible to indicate the boundaries of the current LMMA for the Bolsurik FSA
site?
We agree that a visual representation of the current LMMA will be helpful to readers. We have
delineated the current LMMA on figure 3, rather than figure 1, for the following reasons: (a) this
allows for direct comparison of the current LMMA area with the calculated catchment areas, and (b)
the VR4-UWM receiver symbols at the FSA site would completely obscure the current LMMA in
figure 1.
6) Figure 2: the legend needs to better explain what represent the numbers (of fish?) and horizontal
ranges (of arrival and departure days?) indicated for each calendar and lunar month.
We thank the reviewer for drawing our attention to this oversight. We have corrected the caption to
read; “Figure 2 - Graph of visitation to the Bolsurik FSA site by acoustically tagged male (blue) and
female (magenta) E. fuscoguttatus. Days (x-axis) are expressed relative to the new moon (vertical
dashed line). Spawning month is expressed as calendar month (left y-axis), and as lunar month
(number of lunar cycles following the previous southern summer solstice) (right y-axis). Mean arrival
(filled circles), departure (open circles), and residence (filled bar) are displayed for each month.
Numbers within circles represent number of tagged individuals present, and error bars represent
standard errors.”
REFERENCES.
7) Scientific names of species should be italicized lines: 443; 449; 455; 492.
This oversight has been corrected.
7) Line 402 (page 17) replace “Comanagement” with “Co-management”.
This line is a direct reference to the paper title, “Comanagement of coral reef social-ecological
systems”, and thus we have left the original spelling. We have, however, replaced “comanagement”
with “co-management” in the body of the manuscript.
END OF COMMENT
Thierry Brulé
CINVESTAV-IPN Unidad Mérida
Recursos del Mar
Antigua Carretera a Progreso Km. 6
A.P. 73 Cordemex, C.P. 97310 Mérida, Yucatán, México
tbrule@mda.cinvestav.mx
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
The manuscript by Waldie et al (“Restricted group reproductive migrations support community-
based management”) describes research on the movement patterns (spawning migrations) of
grouper (E. fuscoguttatus) relative to the boundaries of a spatial fishery closure intended to protect
spawning aggregations for that species. They use data derived from acoustic telemetry and tag
returns to describe migration routes and post-spawning distribution of the local grouper population,
and compare this with the potential scale of spatial management measures as supported by
interviews with resident stakeholders. As the authors state in the introduction, this research has
substantial implications for spatially directed management in coral reef fisheries as spawning
aggregations are highly localized and closed areas tend to be small. The combination of data on fish
movement and resident perspectives is very effective for demonstrating that limited expansion of
the spatial closure is: 1) tenable among stakeholders; and, 2) likely to enhance management of local
grouper population. The data collected are analyzed appropriately and I have no major concerns
about the manuscript. I have some minor concerns about the potential bias from “distance
weighting” in their estimated dispersal kernels (detailed below), and suggest it is important for the
authors to address this possible source of bias in the discussion of their results. I recommend the
manuscript be accepted after minor revision.
Comments:
1) Albanese et al (2003, Trans Am Fish Soc 132:925-939) described how the spatial scale of recapture
effort can affect the estimate of movement parameters (median movement distance, kernel shape,
etc.) in mark-recapture studies. In the acoustic receiver array employed in the study, sampling is
most intense in areas within 2 km of the spawning site. It is therefore not surprising that most
observations both during and outside the spawning season likewise occur on those receivers within
2 km of the spawning site. This would bias the shape of fitted dispersal kernel by underrepresenting
those individuals that reside in more distant locations, and might not pass by the sparsely-
distributed acoustic receivers outside this 2-km radius on their spawning migrations (or might not be
detected, as the authors explain as well on line 251).
We thank the reviewer for his comments, and agree that the design of the acoustic array potentially
introduces bias into the migration distance data. We have clarified this important point in the
discussion. Specifically, we now state; “Second, migration distance data may be ‘distance weighted’
due to sampling bias [38]. Specifically, likelihood of acoustic detection was presumably higher
proximal to the FSA – due to increased receiver coverage. Ideally, distance weighting could be
reduced through design (e.g., with acoustic receivers deployed in a grid formation). However,
greater coverage was required proximal to the FSA to accurately determine visitation patterns and
to delineate migration corridors. Additionally, receiver placement was considerably constrained by
the complex bathymetry and patchy habitat at the site. Thus, limited resources, logistic constraints,
and balancing multiple objectives outlined prior to the study limited the feasibility of eliminating
distance weighting by design.” Details on how we addressed this potential bias are discussed in
detail below.
It is also feasible that the number of visitations an individual makes to the FSA during the spawning
season is inversely correlated with the distance they must migrate to reach it (i.e. the distance to
their resident area). Since tagging effort was spread out over more than one spawning month, it
seems that individuals that reside closer to the FSA would have a higher likelihood of being captured
and tagged. This aspect of the species’ behavior could therefore increase the potential for distance
weighting in the movement data.
The author is correct in stating that sampling would be biased towards individuals migrating shorter
distances, if migration distance is inversely correlated with number of visits to the FSA, or with total
residence time at the FSA. We therefore included tests for these effects in the manuscript.
Specifically, we now state, in the methods; “Pearson product-moment correlation coefficients were
computed to assess the relationships between migration distance and number of visits to the FSA,
and between migration distance and total residence time at the FSA, over the duration of the study.”
In the results, we now state; “There was no correlation either between migration distance and
number of visits to the FSA [r = 0.196, n = 24, p =0.348], or between migration distance and total
residence time at the FSA [r = 0.285, n = 24, p = 0.168].” In the discussion we now state;
“Underestimation of migration distances may occur through at least two, non-mutually exclusive
mechanisms. First, if the number and length of visitations to the FSA were inversely correlated with
migration distance (i.e., individuals that reside closer to the FSA spend more time at the FSA), then
individuals that migrate shorter distances would likely be overrepresented in the tagged sample.
However, no such correlation was observed either here, or in a previous study (Rhodes, pers.
comm.).“
The authors do note that their data represent “minimum distances” of migration and recognize that
underestimating migration distances would be problematic. However, they do not address the fact
that the design of their sampling (acoustic) array limits their ability to detect those individuals that
reside far outside the FSA. It is telling that three recaptures of tagged fish occurred within roughly 2
km of the most distant receiver, and yet no “non-spawning detections” were recorded at same this
location (Fig. 1). I agree with the authors when they state that (line 332 approx) the fact that these
individuals show high non-spawning site fidelity does suggest that they can accurately determine the
non-spawning ‘resident’ location for an individual, IF it is detected by receivers at that location.
However, this does not reduce the bias created by low acoustic sampling effort in the areas > 2 km
from the FSA.
I do not believe that this undermines the authors’ conclusions completely. The practical realities of
sampling always limit the scale of effort. However, this is a relatively small sample size for
estimating a dispersal kernel and the effect of distance weighting bias could be significant for the
reasons I describe above. I suggest that the authors should address this source of bias in their
discussion. Perhaps comparing the observed migration distances from this study with those from
other studies for this or other Epinephelus spp. would lend insight into the potential scale of bias.
The authors can explain that the main implications of this bias would be to reduce the estimated
fraction of the population that could be protected by an expansion of the LMMA to 2 km. Changing
the kernel parameters to increase average migration distance (perhaps to match one previously
estimated in a different study) would allow the authors to demonstrate the potential impact that
underestimating migration distance would have on the fraction of the population protected by the
increased protected area. Most likely this would illustrate that the conservation returns would still
be substantial even if a smaller fraction is protected. The authors could also consider extending this
analysis to estimate the change in spawning stock biomass from the increased spatial closure and /
or resulting increase in population fecundity.
On consideration, we agree with the reviewer that the comparison of the subset of ‘non-spawning
detections’ with the complete dataset (original figure 4) does not address the underlying bias in the
data, as both are likely to contain similar biases. To address this issue, we have removed this
comparison. Instead, we have reanalysed the migration dataset, following application of correction
factors (as per the paper supplied by the reviewer – [Albanese et al., 2003]). As agreed by the
reviewer, the ‘non-spawning’ data are likely to represent accurate migration distances. As such,
these corrections were applied to the ‘migration only’ data, but not the ‘non-spawning’ data. As the
reviewer predicted, the corrected data predicted a reduced, though still substantial conservation
return. We believe this analysis to be superior to directly altering kernel parameters (which is
somewhat arbitrary, and not immediately intuitive in real terms [cf. a correction factor of 2.0 means
that observed migration distances were doubled]), or to geographical comparisons (as this
introduces numerous unknown and uncontrolled variables, and comparable datasets are not
available).
Specifically, in the methods we now state; ”Maximum recorded migration distance (the greatest
Euclidean distance from the FSA site to a point of acoustic detection or recapture) was calculated for
each individual, using ArcGIS [34]. Correction factors of 1.5 and 2.0 were individually applied to a
subset of these data, such that data from detections or recaptures during the non-spawning season
(44%) remained unchanged, while data from acoustic detection during migratory periods (56%) were
multiplied by the correction factor. This yielded three permutations of the dataset; (1) ‘uncorrected’,
(2) ‘1.5 corrected’, and (3) ‘2.0 corrected’. Migration kernels were then separately fitted to these
datasets (n = 25).” […] “The log-normal function provided the best fit of the uncorrected data, with
an Akaike weight of 0.67, compared with the gamma and Weibull kernels, with Akaike weights of
0.21 and 0.11, respectively. The log-normal function also provided the best fit of the 1.5 corrected
data, with an Akaike weight of 0.44, compared with the gamma and Weibull kernels, with Akaike
weights of 0.31 and 0.25, respectively. The log-normal, gamma, and Weibull functions provided
relatively equivalent fits of the 2.0 corrected data, with Akaike weights of 0.33, 0.35, and 0.33,
respectively. A 95% confidence interval band was then calculated for each maximum likelihood log-
normal function using non-parametric bootstrapping, with 1000 bootsamples (figure 4).”
In the results we now state; “The maximum likelihood fit of the log-normal function fitted to the
complete observed dataset (µ = 0.40, s = 0.76), suggested that 50% of E. fuscoguttatus that
aggregate to spawn at the Bolsurik FSA remain within 1.5 km of the FSA site throughout the non-
spawning season (within an area of 2.1 km2; table 1). The functions fitted following application of
correction factors of 1.5 (µ = 0.63, s = 0.79) and 2.0 (µ = 0.79, s = 0.84), reduce this to 39% and 32%,
respectively (figure 4).”
In the discussion we now state; “Where distance weighting cannot be eliminated through study
design, correction factors can be used to assess its effect on observed movement patterns [38].
However, relatively consistent acoustic detection patterns and the absence of detections across
multiple receivers during the non-spawning season, both here, and in a previous study (Rhodes,
unpub. data.), suggest high non-spawning site fidelity for E. fuscoguttatus. Thus, data from
detections or recaptures during the non-spawning season (i.e., excluding individuals with data from
migratory movements only) (44%) are likely to represent relatively accurate migration distances.
Correction factors of 1.5 and 2.0 were therefore applied to the data from migratory periods only
(56%). Uniform correction factors were applied, because more complex distance-dependent
correction factors are based on numerous assumptions which are unlikely to be met in this complex
system [38]. Even after applying a correction factor of 2.0 (effectively doubling detected migratory
movement distances), the migration kernel suggested that expansion of the LMMA to 2 km2 would
protect 32% of individuals (figure 4). Further, as 32% of all tagged individuals were detected or
captured within this area during the non-spawning season, we suggest that this represents a
conservative minimum estimate.”
Finally, we have replaced the original ‘figure 4’ with a comparison of the three maximum likelihood
functions discussed above. The caption for ‘figure 4’ now reads; “Comparison of maximum likelihood
migration kernels (each n=25). The uncorrected dataset maximum likelihood fit of the log-normal
function (µ = 0.40, s = 0.76) is plotted (black line), with 95% bootstrapped confidence interval (grey
area). The maximum likelihood fit of the log-normal functions are also plotted for the ‘1.5 corrected’
(µ = 0.63, s = 0.79; green line) and ‘2.0 corrected’ (µ = 0.79, s = 0.84; orange line) datasets.”
2) A common problem with spatial closures is lack of enforcement, and this appears to be a problem
even in this small closed area as you describe. Expanding the closed area boundary may be
supported by the community (line 341) but it will substantially increase the burden on enforcement.
This complicates the otherwise simple conclusion that expanding boundaries is favorable because it
increases conservation returns and is supported by stakeholders. Expanding boundaries without
concomitantly increasing enforcement effort could lead to negative returns (increased poaching in
the FSA due to diffuse enforcement) rather than positive returns. The authors should consider this
in their discussion and conclusions, perhaps providing more detail on how this community-based
system of regulation structures enforcement.
We agree with the reviewer’s assessment that enforcement is one of the most pressing issues facing
spatial management. As we state in our discussion; “Instituting a system of graduated sanctions on
violators (increasing in severity with each successive infringement) is one of the key design principles
for sustained community-based management success [3,36], and should thus be prioritised here.”
We had not discussed the potential effects of LMMA expansion on enforcement effort, and we
thank the reviewer for highlighting this omission. In our discussion, we now state; “A spatial
expansion of this magnitude is also unlikely to increase the burden of enforcement here, as current
and proposed LMMA areas are equally visible from the surrounding area. Any locally administered
system of sanctions is more likely to involve reports by witnesses to infringement, than the
apprehension of alleged poachers in the act. According to household surveys, all poaching at the site
within the past three years was carried out by members of the local community, and identification of
poachers was not difficult.” This further required the addition of the following in the ‘results’
section; “Respondents reported that all poaching was carried out by members of the communities of
western Dyual, who were known to them.”
Apart from these concerns, I feel the authors have done an excellent job presenting this study (the
figures are particularly engaging) and their research addresses an important aspect of fisheries
management and natural resource management more broadly. I hope my comments will prove
helpful as they revise the manuscript for publication.
Sincerely,
Robert Humston
Washington and Lee University
**********************************************
Journal Name: Royal Society Open Science
Journal Code: RSOS
Online ISSN: 2054-5703
Journal Admin Email: openscience@royalsociety.org
Journal Editor: Emilie Aime
Journal Editor Email: emilie.aime@royalsociety.org
MS Reference Number: RSOS-150694
Article Status: SUBMITTED
MS Dryad ID: RSOS-150694
MS Title: Restricted grouper reproductive migrations support community-based management
MS Authors: Waldie, Peter; Almany, Glenn; Sinclair-Taylor, Tane; Hamilton, Richard; Potuku, Tapas;
Priest, Mark; Rhodes, Kevin; Robinson, Jan; Cinner, Joshua; Berumen, Michael
Contact Author: Peter Waldie
Contact Author Email: peter.waldie@gmail.com
Contact Author Address 1:
Contact Author Address 2:
Contact Author Address 3:
Contact Author City: Townsville
Contact Author State: Queensland
Contact Author Country: Australia
Contact Author ZIP/Postal Code: 4811
Keywords: fish spawning aggregation, Epinephelidae, movement ecology, marine protected areas,
acoustic telemetry, marine reserve
Abstract: Conservation commonly requires trade-offs between social and ecological goals. For
tropical small-scale fisheries, spatial scales of socially appropriate management are generally small -
the median no-take Locally Managed Marine Area (LMMA) area throughout the Pacific is less than 1
km<sup>2</sup>. This is of particular concern for large coral reef fishes, such as many species of
grouper, which migrate to aggregations to spawn. Current data suggest that the catchment areas
(i.e. total area from which individuals are drawn) of such aggregations are at spatial scales that
preclude effective community-based management with no-take LMMAs. We used acoustic
telemetry and tag-returns to examine reproductive migrations and catchment areas of the grouper
<i>Epinephelus fuscoguttatus</i>, at a spawning aggregation in Papua New Guinea. Protection of
the resultant catchment area of approximately 16 km<sup>2</sup> using a no-take LMMA is socially
untenable here, and throughout much of the Pacific region. However, we found that spawning
migrations were skewed towards shorter distances. Consequently, expanding the current 0.2
km<sup>2</sup> no-take LMMA to 1-2 km<sup>2</sup> would protect approximately 30-50% of
the spawning population throughout the non-spawning season. Contrasting with current knowledge,
our results demonstrate that species with moderate reproductive migrations can be managed at
scales congruous with spatially-restricted management tools.
EndDryadContent
Society Open
