Diversification rates and phenotypic evolution in venomous
snakes (Elapidae)
Michael S. Y. Lee, Kate L. Sanders, Benedict King and Alessandro Palci
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 2: 150277.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.150277
Review timeline
Original submission: 18 June 2015 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 29 October 2015 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 December 2015 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-150277.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Harvey Lillywhite)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes, OK
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2015 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
General Comments: This is a well-written, interesting, and well-executed investigation into the
phylogeny and phenotypic evolution of elapid snakes. The data set is robust, the analysis
appropriate, and the methods appear sound. The results are clearly presented and discussed.
This paper is appropriate for the journal, and will be of special interest to a broad range of
evolutionary biologists. I have only two very minor editorial emendations, as follow.
Specific Comments:
1. Page 2, line 59: Data are plural. Please change “is” to “are.”
2. Page 5, line 16: Change “size (average body length) evolution” to read “evolution of size
(average body length)” [size is not an adjective.]
Harvey B. Lillywhite
University of Florida
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Lee et all present an interesting research paper in which they compare the rate of diversification
and the rate of phenotypic evolution in an medically important group of snakes. The study shows
that the diversification rates and the rate of phenotypic evolution seems to be decoupled in this
group of snakes, contrary to what has been found in other groups of vertebrates.
Although the study is generally well done, there are several issues that I think should be
addressed before the article is ready for publication.
Please see attached file with comments and suggestions (see Appendix A).
3
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 3
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
Review of Diversification rates and phenotypic evolution in venomous snakes (Elapidae)
This manuscript sets out to address whether rates of diversification and rates of phenotypic
change (i.e. body size) are correlated in elapid snakes. There is precedent for such analyses across
other taxa (mammals, ray-finned fishes, passerine birds, salamanders, and others), and no clear
consensus regarding evolutionary process has emerged. It may be that such macroevolutionary
patterns are clade-specific, or it may be that the use of different analytical methods makes
conclusions difficult to compare across studies (this is a rapidly changing field). I suspect a bit of
both is true, but the question of correlated rates of diversification and phenotypic change remains
an interesting one, and other case studies are welcome.
My question is whether this manuscript represents a compelling case study that will join others
in building our understanding of macroevolutionary process. The manuscript presents very little
new data; rather, it is a compilation of data taken from GenBank (most from Pyron and
Burbrink’s study of snake phylogeny) and supplemented with newly sequenced genes from four
new taxa. The body size data is taken from the literature. Therefore, the paper needs to stand on
its analytical strengths and its potential insight into core evolutionary questions.
The phylogenetic analysis is sound (though see below for concerns regarding the position of
Calliophis). It has become fashionable to do BAMM analyses of various clades, and the authors
do the standard battery of speciation-extinction and trait evolution analysis. There’s nothing
analytically novel here, but there’s nothing analytically very objectionable either. All of the
relevant supporting files are present in the supplementary information. Based on these analyses,
there is reasonably strong evidence for a diversification rate increase in Hydrophis and some
evidence for stable diversification rates in Micrurus over a general clade-wide declining
diversification rate (which the authors attribute to density dependent effects). There is
apparently no evidence of correlation between rates of morphological change and rates of
diversification, but this could be tested more explicitly using approaches such as QuaSSE in
Diversitree and more recent approaches developed by Dan Rabosky (Syst. Biol. Preprint).
4
Ultimately, there isn’t much in this paper to interest a broad audience. It is intriguing that one
clade shows accelerated rates of diversification, but diversification rate heterogeneity is not
unusual across the tree of life. The fact that that there is no correlation between body size
evolution and diversification rate means that the Discussion ends up postulating various ad hoc
ideas for why this clade is diversifying rapidly. A paper that rigorously tested the various
hypotheses (rather than just body size) for diversification rate heterogeneity across elapids would
make a more compelling paper.
Page 7: There is a long discussion of biogeography, but no formal biogeographic analyses are
presented to support this.
Page 8 “and the strong discordance in the two traits, suggest that any such
association must be extremely weak at best” I wouldn’t characterize this as a strong discordance
so much as a lack of correlation.
Page 8. The alternative explanations for diversification rate heterogeneity are potentially
interesting, but they aren’t tested in any rigorous way. As a result, this section comes across as an
ad hoc discussion of possible correlates of diversification rate.
The phylogenetic position of Calliophis is perplexing. Pyron and Burbrink report this genus as
the sister taxon to other coral snakes, but with low support. This study shows a very deep
divergence between the two species of Calliophis (with negligible support), but very strong
support for the monophyly of other coral snakes and marginally non-significant support
(pp=0.94) for the remaining elapids. The authors handle this by constraining a clade comprising
coral snakes + Calliophis, and justify this by citing morphological studies. The different
topologies don’t affect the diversification analyses, but I would like to see a more detailed
analysis of the problem, including separate analysis of the mitochondrial and nuclear genes, as
well as appropriate statistical tests (e.g. SH, AU tests) of alternative topologies.
The correction for average body length from maximum body length (page 5) is probably fine,
unless there is a systematic bias for taxa where this correction was applied (e.g. are all Hydrophis
corrected…). Some mention of the distribution of measurement type across taxa would assuage
this criticism.
Minor questions/comments:
Page 6:
“However, two clades exhibit diversification regimes that stand out against this background: the
core Hydrophis clade (raw regime shift probability 0.95)
and Micrurus (raw probability 0.47).” (and elsewhere). What do you mean by “raw
probability”? I understand these as posterior probabilities.
“These are also the clades with the highest branch specific Bayes Factor support for regime shifts,
after correcting for the prior (8471 and 237 respectively).” What do 8471 and 237 refer to?
“Average speciation and extinction rates for Hydrophis and Bungarus are more than double
those of other elapid clades (table 1), this is due to a marked increase in rates in Hydrophis, and
stable (rather than declining) rates in Micrurus (figure S6).” Bungarus is not mentioned in Table
1.
5
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 4
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
This is an interesting paper and worthy of publication, however I feel the authors have not taken
full advantage of the dataset they have gathered. It would have been relatively easy to investigate
other traits such as reproductive mode using their extensive phylogeny, and I was surprised that
in their review of the literature for each species they did not choose to investigate other
morphological traits such as body or head scale counts - such data is typically provided in species
descriptions and would have enabled a comparison to the body size results.
Whilst the above might involve a lot more work, some mention of aquatic lineages in the
discussion should be relatively straight-forward, and provide an interesting test of the approach.
The fossil record and the problem of extinct lineages is briefly touched upon, but needs to be
expanded, with at least some detail on how extensive (or otherwise) the elapid fossil record is.
The problem of interpreting current diversity in the absence of an appreciation of the fossil record
is one that has been covered before (e.g. see Donoghue, Philip CJ, and Mark A. Purnell. "Genome
duplication, extinction and vertebrate evolution." Trends in Ecology & Evolution 20.6 (2005): 312-
319) and deserves a more thorough consideration in this manuscript.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150277)
09-Oct-2015
Dear Dr Lee,
The editors assigned to your paper ("Diversification rates and phenotypic evolution in venomous
snakes (Elapidae)") has now received comments from reviewers. We would like you to revise
your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which can be found
below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision does not
guarantee eventual acceptance.
6
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 01-Nov-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list:
• Ethics statement (if applicable)
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-150277
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
7
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Emilie Aime
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150277)
See Appendix B.
label_version_2
RSOS-150277.R1 (Revision)
label_author_5
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
8
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_5
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The modified manuscript is much improved
label_author_6
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
YEs
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
Yes
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_6
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
The manuscript “Diversification rates and phenotypic evolution in venomous
Snakes” by Lee et al. for publication in Royal Society Open Science examines the connection
between rates of species diversification with rates of morphological evolution in elapid snakes
using a phylogeny using a 3 locus data set and body size. They conclude using analysis derived
mostly from BAMM that the rates of evolution between morphology and species diversification
are disconnected.
The paper is ultimately fairly simple in terms of methods used, the exploration of processes that
generated these data and conclusions. My general comments are below:
1) This disconnection is a fairly standard result although the authors did not reference some key
literature using model-based tests from Harmon et al. (2010) and Burbrink t al. (2012).
2) its likely that body size is too course of a measure of morphology to capture what is actually
being selected in terms of an adaptive radiation. That is, if species diversification is at all related
derived from an adaptive radiation driven by ecological opportunity (Schluter 2000) then it is
possible that other ecologically relevant traits are more important and would provide a better fit
to what is happening at the organismal level.
3) It is surprising that they did not regress the results from the species diversification and
morphological diversification outputs in BAMM to see if there is a direct relationship using
9
PGLS. While there are conceptual problems with doing this, it now seems to be the method that
Rabosky is promoting given that quaSSE and other SSE methods are not reliable.
4) Why were general models of morphological diversification not explored? For this system I
think it would be key to examine if these data follow BM, OU models etc. and, using SURFACE,
they could determine how much convergence is happening here. This might be key for
understanding the disconnection between rates of diversification. Therefore, this really addresses
another issue not explored in BAMM, but equally important which is what model best describes
the evolution of these morphological data and how does this relate to what is understood from
species diversification, which again itself was not modeled in the context of processes such as
birth death, diversity dependent etc. (see RPANDA, TREEPAR, DDD packages in R). From a
modeling viewpoint this would ask are the models of species diversification (BD, DD etc) related
to the models of morphological diversification (Brownian motion, OU, early Burst).
Also, they should explore this in the context of model adequacy (see Pennell et al. 2015).
5) Apparently, according to Rabosky and others, there may be a problem with the likelihood
function in BAMM, which could undermine conclusions here:http://bamm-
project.org/likelihoodmodel.html
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-150277.R1)
30-Nov-2015
Dear Dr Lee:
Manuscript ID RSOS-150277.R1 entitled "Diversification rates and phenotypic evolution in
venomous snakes (Elapidae)" which you submitted to Royal Society Open Science, has been
reviewed. The comments of the reviewer(s) are included at the bottom of this letter.
Please submit a copy of your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 23-Dec-2015). If we do
not hear from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance.We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections before the reference list:
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
10
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Sincerely,
Matthew Allinson
Editorial Coordinator Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Kevin Padian
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
11
Editor Comments to Author (Kevin Padian):
I like this manuscript and think the results are very much worth reporting (so that “no
correlation” findings don’t simply get stuffed in a file drawer, unpublished). I just have a couple
of suggestions. In my view there is no need for the authors to invoke “punctuation” in their first
line. Rates of phenotypic change could work equally well whether morphology in a clade was
mostly static or whether change was slow and steady and constant. Some microevolutionists
continue to fail to understand this, and so it is good for paleobiologists to help set it right.
Punctuation is about stasis, not change; rates and amount of change are not involved with this
question.
A somewhat similar point: If speciation is associated with morphological change, and many times
it is not, there should be more disparity in highly speciose lineages, except when there is not (e.g.,
Hawaiian drosophilids). But is not true, I think, that “low-diversity groups would be expected to
exhibit relative morphological stasis.” (line 10) Rather, ceteris paribus, they might show relatively
less disparity. That is a different question than “the relationship between speciation rates and
morphological evolution” (line 14), which could be correlated irrespective of any question of the
tempo of evolution (slow and steady or static/punctuated).
This first paragraph, I suggest, should be rewritten. Otherwise it seems very clear to me.
The second reviewer offers some useful comments but I don't think that the authors are really
talking about an "adaptive radiation" per se (if they do, the language should be changed because
they are not testing for adaptation, merely size).
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-150277)
See Appendix C.
Appendix A
Lee et all present an interesting research paper in which they compare the rate of 
diversification and the rate of phenotypic evolution in an medically important group 
of snakes. The study shows that the diversification rates and the rate of phenotypic 
evolution seems to be decoupled in this group of snakes, contrary to what has been 
found in other groups of vertebrates. 
Although the study is generally well done, there are several issues that I think 
should be addressed before the article is ready for publication. I address each one of 
those issues below: 
1) I know that measuring specimens in museums is time consuming and it’s also
difficult to visit many museum collections, however the fact that the
“average” size for species was obtained by many different ways complicates
comparison to other studiers and replication of the methodology used here.
2) Although body size is frequently used as a proxy for phenotypic variation
there are several other measurements that are know to have an impact in
snake ecology and evolution, such as mouth gape size or tail length. I don’t
think its necessary to redo the study, however I think there should be a
mention of this in the manuscript. Same goes for point number 1.
3) How would the results be affected if you include only those taxa for which
you have more “reliable” measurements? Or include those for which you
have additional information such as tail length?
4) Do you see any differences if you log-­-transform your measurement data?
5) I don’t know if I missed this, but I don’t see an analysis that test the
relationship between diversification rates and rate of phenotypic evolution,
such as in your reference #3
6) I would be careful when trying to find explanations to the rate of body size,
such as a small size being advantageous for hiding in crevices. Are there
other plausible explanations?
7) I think the entire manuscript would benefit greatly if the grammar is revised.
Using the active voice instead of passive voice would make it much easier to
read.
Below is a list of changes and comments that I think would be good to take into 
account. Numbers represent line numbers in the manuscript. Words that I think 
should be added are in italics. 
 
PAGE 1 
 
TITLE PAGE 
 
2. Title: Diversification rates and phenotypic evolution in the venomous snakes of 
the family Elapidae 
 
28. …across the family Elapidae 
 
30. highly venomous snakes 
 
31. The trees do not reveal the lack of evidence of a link, the analyses that you 
performed using these trees did. 
40. …exist in other groups 
 
42. appear to be uncoupled in Elapid snakes (and perhaps in other squamate 
lineages) 
 
 
MANUSCRIPT 
 
PAGE 2 
 
8. In phylogenies of living taxa… 
 
18. but a negative correlation (?) 
 
22. Large phylogenies… 
 
29. Delete “for example” 
 
38. “and the relative high fraction…that still survives” -­- How do you know this? 
 
43. Elapid snakes are a relative young group 
 
47. Delete “which” 
 
50. Reference #15 – perhaps a more recent citation? 
 
51. Change “generally” for in general 
 
 
 
 
 
PAGE 3 
 
10. Delete “the mostly terrestrial” 
 
15. Delete “the first time this monotypic…” 
 
26-­-36. I am guessing you concatenated the different genes? 
 
27. Ref. 15 should be 19 (?) 
 
36. …, is provided Supplementary Information 
 
43 – 54. Perhaps make a small table with all the models? 
 
 
PAGE 4 
 
18. What do you mean with “unbalanced concensus tree”? 
 
22. References, what about Castoe et al. 2007? 
 
27 – 31. Why not just call the trees “constrained vs. unconstrained”? Makes 
everything simpler. 
 
56 -­-57. “Length measurements reported were assumed to be average” – this is a big 
assumption 
 
PAGE 5 
 
7 – 11. Do you have a reference for this? or a reason to use this particular formula? 
 
16. Place “average body length” after evolution. 
 
PAGE 6 
 
2. Once again, not sure what you mean with “unbalanced” 
 
PAGE 7 
 
43. … “are the closest relatives of…. as well as sea snakes” 
 
PAGE 8 
 
23. Hydrophis sea snakes (delete group) 
 
47. Aipysurus species group 
PAGE 9 
2. Reference 41 – perhaps use a different reference?
43. … retain species with larger size and… 
54 – 57 – other possible scenarios? 
PAGE 10 
11. … is reduced (?) in the Suta… 
15. “was captured by a single rapid rate regime” -­- not sure what you mean with this
22. Reference [10b], probably an error
Appendix B
RESPONSE TO REVIEWERS:
All comments reproduced in full below, responses and changes in blue.
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
General Comments: This is a well-written, interesting, and well-executed
investigation into the phylogeny and phenotypic evolution of elapid snakes. The
data set is robust, the analysis appropriate, and the methods appear sound. The
results are clearly presented and discussed. This paper is appropriate for the
journal, and will be of special interest to a broad range of evolutionary biologists. I
have only two very minor editorial emendations, as follow.
Specific Comments:
1. Page 2, line 59: Data are plural. Please change “is” to “are.”
2. Page 5, line 16: Change “size (average body length) evolution” to read
“evolution of size (average body length)” [size is not an adjective.]
Both done
Harvey B. Lillywhite
University of Florida
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Lee et all present an interesting research paper in which they compare the rate of
diversification and the rate of phenotypic evolution in an medically important group
of snakes. The study shows that the diversification rates and the rate of phenotypic
evolution seems to be decoupled in this group of snakes, contrary to what has been
found in other groups of vertebrates.
Although the study is generally well done, there are several issues that I think
should be addressed before the article is ready for publication.
Please see attached file with comments and suggestions [text from pdf attached at
end, with responses]
Reviewer: 3
Comments to the Author(s)
This is an interesting paper and worthy of publication, however I feel the authors
have not taken full advantage of the dataset they have gathered. It would have been
relatively easy to investigate other traits such as reproductive mode using their
extensive phylogeny, …
Reproductive mode evolution has been investigated for ~160 of the ~170 elapids
considered here (as part of a study of >4000 lizards and snakes) recently in Pyron
and Burbrink (Ecol. Lett. 2014), King and Lee (Syst Biol. 2015), Wright et al. (JEB-Z
2015) among other studies. Repeating these analyses for elapids only would not
shed any new light on this issue.
… and I was surprised that in their review of the literature for each species they did
not choose to investigate other morphological traits such as body or head scale
counts - such data is typically provided in species descriptions and would have
enabled a comparison to the body size results. Whilst the above might involve a lot
more work, some mention of aquatic lineages in the discussion should be relatively
straight-forward, and provide an interesting test of the approach.
We agree that comparing patterns in taxonomic traits (e.g. head scale counts etc)
would be a valuable avenue for future research. However, these were not as readily
available for the full sample of species compared to body size. Furthermore, the
program of choice for implementing these diversification analyses (BAMM: Refs 31,
32) currently does not accommodate discrete or meristic characters.
The fossil record and the problem of extinct lineages is briefly touched upon, but
needs to be expanded, with at least some detail on how extensive (or otherwise) the
elapid fossil record is. The problem of interpreting current diversity in the absence of
an appreciation of the fossil record is one that has been covered before (e.g. see
Donoghue, Philip CJ, and Mark A. Purnell. "Genome duplication, extinction and
vertebrate evolution." Trends in Ecology & Evolution 20.6 (2005): 312-319) and
deserves a more thorough consideration in this manuscript.
This is now acknowledged by citing the above paper, as well as a related paper
(Quental, T.B. and C.R. Marshall. TREE 2010), as well as Ref 7 again:
"The lack of association between elevated speciation rates and body size
evolution, and between these two evolutionary processes and the
colonisation of Australasia, is surprising. The lack of association between
diversification and/or trait evolution with candidate evolutionary drivers has
been recently noted [e.g. 13, 33], and might reflect a widespread pattern.
Alternatively, it might be an artefact of our reduced power to detect
macroevolutionary patterns in the deep past using (primarily) extant
information, especially for groups with a poor fossil record such as elapids
[7,48,49,50]."
Reviewer: 4
Comments to the Author(s)
Review of Diversification rates and phenotypic evolution in venomous snakes
(Elapidae)
This manuscript sets out to address whether rates of diversification and rates of
phenotypic change (i.e. body size) are correlated in elapid snakes. There is
precedent for such analyses across other taxa (mammals, ray-finned fishes,
passerine birds, salamanders, and others), and no clear consensus regarding
evolutionary process has emerged. It may be that such macroevolutionary patterns
are clade-specific, or it may be that the use of different analytical methods makes
conclusions difficult to compare across studies (this is a rapidly changing field). I
suspect a bit of both is true, but the question of correlated rates of diversification
and phenotypic change remains an interesting one, and other case studies are
welcome.
We agree with this; hence this case study which shows a counterintuitive "non-
pattern".
My question is whether this manuscript represents a compelling case study that will
join others in building our understanding of macroevolutionary process. The
manuscript presents very little new data; rather, it is a compilation of data taken from
GenBank (most from Pyron and Burbrink’s study of snake phylogeny) and
supplemented with newly sequenced genes from four new taxa. The body size data
is taken from the literature. Therefore, the paper needs to stand on its analytical
strengths and its potential insight into core evolutionary questions.
The phylogenetic analysis is sound (though see below for concerns regarding the
position of Calliophis). It has become fashionable to do BAMM analyses of various
clades, and the authors do the standard battery of speciation-extinction and trait
evolution analysis. There’s nothing analytically novel here, but there’s nothing
analytically very objectionable either. All of the relevant supporting files are present
in the supplementary information. Based on these analyses, there is reasonably
strong evidence for a diversification rate increase in Hydrophis and some evidence
for stable diversification rates in Micrurus over a general clade-wide declining
diversification rate (which the authors attribute to density dependent effects). There
is apparently no evidence of correlation between rates of morphological change and
rates of diversification, but this could be tested more explicitly using approaches
such as QuaSSE in Diversitree and more recent approaches developed by Dan
Rabosky (Syst. Biol. Preprint).
QuaSSE is part of the family of SSE related models, which has been heavily
criticised (Syst Biol. 64:340-355, titled "Model Inadequacy and Mistaken Inferences
of Trait-Dependent Speciation"). We thus do not use those approaches which
explicitly co-estimate speciation rates and character evolution. The Rabosky
preprint (first online Sept 22, i.e. a few weeks ago) does advocate a new method
which is less biased than SSE, but with low power - they state " the method will
primarily be applicable to phylogenies that include at least several thousand tips".
This method is thus not feasible here, or for the vast majority of trees.
Our approach of mapping shifts in diversification and in body size evolution
separately is actually highly consistent with one solution advocated by Rabosky and
Goldberg: " tests that reconstruct separately the locations on the tree of character
state changes and diversification shifts … may be fruitful" (p.353).
Ultimately, there isn’t much in this paper to interest a broad audience. It is intriguing
that one clade shows accelerated rates of diversification, but diversification rate
heterogeneity is not unusual across the tree of life. The fact that that there is no
correlation between body size evolution and diversification rate means that the
Discussion ends up postulating various ad hoc ideas for why this clade is
diversifying rapidly. A paper that rigorously tested the various hypotheses (rather
than just body size) for diversification rate heterogeneity across elapids would make
a more compelling paper.
We unsurprisingly disagree with the first comment (that the paper is uninteresting),
and note the second comment (beginning "it is intriguing …") actually highlights one
point that is interesting.
Regarding the final comment, we agree that comparing patterns in
taxonomic traits (e.g. head scale counts etc) would be a valuable avenue for future
research. However, these were not as readily available for the full sample of
species compared to body size. Furthermore, the program of choice for
implementing these diversification analyses (BAMM: Refs 31, 32) currently (as at
Oct 23, 2015) does not accommodate discrete or meristic characters.
Page 7: There is a long discussion of biogeography, but no formal biogeographic
analyses are presented to support this.
Our discussion amounts to 22 lines (second paragraph of Discussion) and we do not
make many formal biogeographical inferences, because this was not the primary
point of the paper. In fact, our only major biogeographical assertion is the equivocal
statement: "Basal lineages are predominantly Asian, suggesting that this was the
distribution of the common ancestor of extant elapids." All other statements simply
describe tree topology, with geography mentioned to help identify species, e.g. "
Kraits (Bungarus) are the close relatives of a diverse clade that also includes all
Australasian elapid genera, and sea snakes."
Page 8 “and the strong discordance in the two traits, suggest that any such
association must be extremely weak at best” I wouldn’t characterize this as a strong
discordance so much as a lack of correlation.
We have now rephrased as "lack of correlation"
Page 8. The alternative explanations for diversification rate heterogeneity are
potentially interesting, but they aren’t tested in any rigorous way. As a result, this
section comes across as an ad hoc discussion of possible correlates of
diversification rate.
We agree, and now acknowledge this: "However, the uniqueness of the Hydrophis
group, especially regarding (2) and (3), means there is lack of phylogenetic
replication within elapids and indeed snakes to rigorously test these explanations. "
The phylogenetic position of Calliophis is perplexing. Pyron and Burbrink report this
genus as the sister taxon to other coral snakes, but with low support. This study
shows a very deep divergence between the two species of Calliophis (with negligible
support), but very strong support for the monophyly of other coral snakes and
marginally non-significant support (pp=0.94) for the remaining elapids. The authors
handle this by constraining a clade comprising coral snakes + Calliophis, and justify
this by citing morphological studies. The different topologies don’t affect the
diversification analyses, but I would like to see a more detailed analysis of the
problem, including separate analysis of the mitochondrial and nuclear genes, as well
as appropriate statistical tests (e.g. SH, AU tests) of alternative topologies.
The primary purpose of this paper was not to reconstruct the relationships of
elapids, but to demonstrate the (non)association between speciation rates and
phenotypic evolution. The relatively small genetic dataset - by current genomic
standards - means certain areas will be equivocally resolved.
The correction for average body length from maximum body length (page 5) is
probably fine, unless there is a systematic bias for taxa where this correction was
applied (e.g. are all Hydrophis corrected…). Some mention of the distribution of
measurement type across taxa would assuage this criticism.
The exact data requested were presented in File S2: the 40/169 taxa in
green cells have estimated lengths, which are inferred. We now draw attention to
this table, Hydrophis does have a large number of estimated species (~50%) but so
does Naja (~50%).
We repeated the analysis with only the 129 species with directly observed
(rather than inferred) average body size, and now state in 3.4 and 4.2: "We used the
full phenotypic dataset (169 species), as well as a conservative dataset including
only the 129 species for which average adult size was directly obtained rather than
inferred" ... "Rates of body size evolution exhibited a very different pattern, which
was retrieved whether the full or conservative phenotypic dataset (see 3.4) was
used".
Minor questions/comments:
Page 6:
“However, two clades exhibit diversification regimes that stand out against this
background: the core Hydrophis clade (raw regime shift probability 0.95)
and Micrurus (raw probability 0.47).” (and elsewhere). What do you mean by “raw
probability”? I understand these as posterior probabilities.
17
Correct, we now clarify: "raw" posterior probabilities reported, i.e. not scaled relative
to prior", see below.
“These are also the clades with the highest branch specific Bayes Factor support for
regime shifts, after correcting for the prior (8471 and 237 respectively).” What do
8471 and 237 refer to?
This was explained on p.5. " Branch specific Bayes factors [32] for each rate
shift were calculated. These assess the posterior evidence for a rate shift on
a branch relative to the prior probability, which is affected both by the prior on
the total number of rate shifts and the relevant branch length."
“Average speciation and extinction rates for Hydrophis and Bungarus are more than
double those of other elapid clades (table 1), this is due to a marked increase in
rates in Hydrophis, and stable (rather than declining) rates in Micrurus (figure S6).”
Bungarus is not mentioned in Table 1.
This was a typo, it is now corrected to Micrurus, thanks.
PDF comments from Referee 2
Lee et all present an interesting research paper in which they compare the rate of
diversification and the rate of phenotypic evolution in an medically important group of
snakes. The study shows that the diversification rates and the rate of phenotypic
evolution seems to be decoupled in this group of snakes, contrary to what has been
found in other groups of vertebrates.
Although the study is generally well done, there are several issues that I think should
be addressed before the article is ready for publication. I address each one of those
issues below:
. 1) I know that measuring specimens in museums is time consuming and it’s also difficult
to visit many museum collections, however the fact that the “average” size for
species was obtained by many different ways complicates comparison to other
studiers and replication of the methodology used here. I don’t think its necessary to
redo the study, however I think there should be a mention of this in the manuscript.
The exact data requested are presented in File S2 - taxa in green cells have
estimated lengths, which are inferred. We now highlight this: " the species which
had body lengths inferred in this fashion are identified in Table S2"
. 2) Although body size is frequently used as a proxy for phenotypic variation there are
several other measurements that are know to have an impact in snake ecology and
evolution, such as mouth gape size or tail length. I don’t think its necessary to redo
the study, however I think there should be a mention of this in the manuscript. Same
goes for point number 1.
. As stated in reply to Ref. 1, we agree that comparing patterns in other traits would be a
valuable avenue for future research. However, as noted in the sect 3.3, snout-vent
and tail lengths were reported for far fewer taxa, so we did not use those variables.
Gape size is even more infrequently reported and much more subjective to measure,
especially from preserved specimens.
.
. 3) How would the results be affected if you include only those taxa for which you have
more “reliable” measurements? Or include those for which you have additional
information such as tail length?
. We repeated the analysis with only the 129 species with directly observed (rather than
inferred) average body size, and now state in 3.4: "We used the full phenotypic
dataset (169 species), as well as a conservative dataset including only the 129
species for which average adult size was directly obtained rather than inferred" ...
"Rates of body size evolution exhibited a very different pattern, which was retrieved
whether the full or conservative phenotypic dataset (see 3.4) was used".
. Tail length was rarely reported in the literature so was not sampled adequately to be used.
. 4) Do you see any differences if you log-transform your measurement data?
. We logged all data (it is logged in the BAMM analyses scripts) and we have
now stated this. All data were log-transformed for analyses and available in
File S2 (raw) and File S3 (logged).
.
. 5) I don’t know if I missed this, but I don’t see an analysis that test the relationship
between diversification rates and rate of phenotypic evolution, such as in your
reference #3
. The relatively few shifts in this phylogeny - 1 or 2 for body size and for speciation -
precludes the statistical tests performed by [3], which used a much bigger phylogeny
of ~7000 species.
.
. 6) I would be careful when trying to find explanations to the rate of body size, such as a
small size being advantageous for hiding in crevices. Are there other plausible
explanations?
We agree, and were very cautious, stating " The reasons for the apparent stability of body
size in Suta are less obvious …. One possible explanation …". We can't think of any other
plausible explaination, hence the first phrase.
. 7) I think the entire manuscript would benefit greatly if the grammar is revised. Using
the active voice instead of passive voice would make it much easier to read.
We appreciate the suggestion, but to change the entire MS from third to first-person would
inevitably result in lots of stylistic contradictions. The other reviewers had no objections
with the more formal tone.
[Minor comments]
Below is a list of changes and comments that I think would be good to take into account.
Numbers represent line numbers in the manuscript. Words that I think should be added are in
italics.
PAGE 1 TITLE
PAGE 2. Title: Diversification rates and phenotypic evolution in the venomous snakes
of the family Elapidae
28. ...across the family Elapidae
Because Linnean categories are largely subjective (e.g. senior author is a contributor to
PhyloCode), we respectfully differ and prefer to avoid using such categories.
30. highly venomous snakes Fixed
31. The trees do not reveal the lack of evidence of a link, the analyses that you
performed using these trees did.
Rephrased " Analyses using these trees…"
40. ...exist in other groups Fixed
42. appear to be uncoupled in Elapid snakes (and perhaps in other squamate lineages)
Fixed
MANUSCRIPT PAGE 2
8. In phylogenies of living taxa... 18. but a negative correlation (?)Fixed
22. Large phylogenies... Fixed
29. Delete “for example” Fixed
38. “and the relative high fraction...that still survives” - How do you know this?
True. We know that the fraction of coelcanths alive today is low, but we can't be
sure that the fraction of elapids is high (we just have no evidence to the
contrary). Rephrased as " the potentially high fraction of total species diversity
that still survives.
43. Elapid snakes are a relative young group Fixed
47. Delete “which” Fixed
50. Reference #15 – perhaps a more recent citation? Fixed, cited Das (2010).
51. Change “generally” for in general Fixed
PAGE 3
10. Delete “the mostly terrestrial” Fixed
15. Delete “the first time this monotypic...” Fixed
26-36. I am guessing you concatenated the different genes? Yes, now stated " The
concatenated elapid sequences in [18] ..,"
27. Ref. 15 should be 19 (?) Should be [18], now corrected.
36. ..., is provided Supplementary Information
43 – 54. Perhaps make a small table with all the models?
This information is already concisely presented in the text: "(1) nuclear coding regions,
codons 1 + 2 - HKYig, (2) nuclear coding regions, codon 3 - HKYg, (3) mitochondrial coding
regions, codon 1 - GTRig, (4) mitochondrial coding regions, codon 2 - GTRig, (5)
mitochondrial coding regions, codon 3 - GTRg, (6) 12S rRNA - GTRig, (7) 16S rRNA - GTRig.."
PAGE 4
18. What do you mean with “unbalanced concensus tree”? Now explained "unbalanced
(asymmetrical) consensus tree"
22. References, what about Castoe et al. 2007? Reference added (29).
27 – 31. Why not just call the trees “constrained vs. unconstrained”? Makes everything
simpler. Now done.
56 -57. “Length measurements reported were assumed to be average” – this is a big
assumption. We adopt this because "average" is much more frequently reported than
"maximum"; nevertheless, this factor only affected a few species, as stated in the paper
(all species in [30] and a few species in [14]).
PAGE 5
7 – 11. Do you have a reference for this? or a reason to use this particular formula?
Yes, as stated in original submission and retained here, "The relationship between
average total length and maximum total length was obtained for the 46 taxa where both
variables were available (figure S3). We then used this tight relationship (Log10[AveLength]
= 1.00643 Log10[MaxLength] - 0.18503, R2 = 0.9 with 44 d.f.) to infer average length for
those taxa in which only maximum length was provided"
16. Place “average body length” after evolution. Fixed
PAGE 6
2. Once again, not sure what you mean with “unbalanced”
rephrased "…unbalanced (asymmetrical)"
PAGE 7
43. ... “are the closest relatives of.... as well as sea snakes”
They are not the closest (Elapsoidea is closer), hence we retain original phrasing (close)
PAGE 8
23. Hydrophis sea snakes (delete group)
Done; we now define our use of Hydrophis: " Hydrophis [= the core Hydrophis group; 19] "
47. Aipysurus species group
We now use Aipysurus-Emydocephalus clade
PAGE 9
2. Reference 41 – perhaps use a different reference?
Reference 41 is relevant, but we also now cite reference 42.
43. ... retain species with larger size and... Fixed
54 – 57 – other possible scenarios?
We can't think of other viable scenarios, and so have decided to keep this speculative
section short, consistent with other reviewer comments.
PAGE 10 11. ... is reduced (?) in the Suta... Fixed.
15. “was captured by a single rapid rate regime” - not sure what you mean with this
clarified as "single rapid diversification rate regime [e.g. 33]"
22. Reference [10b], probably an error. Fixed.
Appendix C
Response to Referees (second/final round)
We thank all refs and the Editor for their input, which has improved this
paper.
Refs 1 to 4 did not return further comments (except that the manuscript was much
improved), so our response concerns the Editorial comments (Kevin Padian) and additional
referee 5.
Editor:
I like this manuscript and think the results are very much worth reporting …
I just have a couple of suggestions [re. first paragraph]. This first paragraph, I suggest,
should be rewritten. Otherwise it seems very clear to me.
We have followed all suggestions, and the paragraph now omits all reference to punctuated
evolution etc, and reads as follows.
Recent studies investigating the relationship between speciation rates and
morphological evolution have produced contrasting results. In the extant biota, a
link between elevated rates of speciation and morphological evolution would be
reflected in highly speciose lineages exhibiting greater morphological disparity;
conversely, groups with low species diversity should exhibit less disparity.
Phylogenetic tests of this association have suggested a positive correlation between
rates of speciation and phenotypic evolution in passerine birds [1] and ray-finned
fishes [2], but no such association was found in mammals [3] and new-world
squamates [4], while both patterns have been proposed in plethodontid
salamanders [5,6].
1) This disconnection is a fairly standard result although the authors did not
reference some key literature using model-based tests from Harmon et al. (2010)
and Burbrink t al. (2012).
We now cite Burbrink et al. (2012), which explicitly looked at the relationship
between speciation rates and body size evolution. Harmon et al. (2010) only
22
examined rates of morphological evolution (and not speciation rates) and so is not
cited.
2) its likely that body size is too course of a measure of morphology to capture what
is actually being selected in terms of an adaptive radiation. That is, if species
diversification is at all related derived from an adaptive radiation driven by ecological
opportunity (Schluter 2000) then it is possible that other ecologically relevant traits
are more important and would provide a better fit to what is happening at the
organismal level.
Yes, we agree and have already stated that on p.8 line 22
" However, rates of diversification could still be correlated with rates of change in
phenotypic traits other than body size."
3) It is surprising that they did not regress the results from the species diversification
and morphological diversification outputs in BAMM to see if there is a direct
relationship using PGLS. While there are conceptual problems with doing this, it now
seems to be the method that Rabosky is promoting given that quaSSE and other
SSE methods are not reliable.
We were adhering to Eric Pianka's Commandment 7 at
http://uts.cc.utexas.edu/~varanus/moses.html:
"Thou Shalt NOT exploit statistics to belabor an otherwise obvious point."
However, at the request of Ref 5, we have now briefly added:
[in Sect 3]
Phylogenetic generalised least squares, as implemented via Markov-Chain
Monte-Carlo in BayesTraits [34], was also used to confirm patterns that were
inferred from visual inspection of the results (see below).
[in Sect 4]
Rates of diversification were exceptionally fast in Hydrophis (0.333
speciation events per Ma, compared to the background rate of 0.129), but
rates of speciation were exceptionally slow in the Suta-Rhinoplocephalus
and Simoselaps-Brachyurophis clades (0.0007 and 0.0010 change per Ma
respectively, compared to the background rate of 0.0039). Phylogenetic
generalised least squares analyses of these numbers, as implemented in
BayesTraits [34], confirmed lack of correlation (models with/without
correlation parameter returned virtually identical marginal likelihoods, with
Bayes Factor of 0.28).
4) Why were general models of morphological diversification not explored? For this
system I think it would be key to examine if these data follow BM, OU models etc.
and, using SURFACE, they could determine how much convergence is happening
here. This might be key for understanding the disconnection between rates of
diversification. Therefore, this really addresses another issue not explored in BAMM,
but equally important which is what model best describes the evolution of these
morphological data and how does this relate to what is understood from species
diversification, which again itself was not modeled in the context of processes such
as birth death, diversity dependent etc. (see RPANDA, TREEPAR, DDD packages
in R). From a modeling viewpoint this would ask are the models of species
diversification (BD, DD etc) related to the models of morphological diversification
(Brownian motion, OU, early Burst).
Also, they should explore this in the context of model adequacy (see Pennell et al.
2015).
We agree that all these additional tests would be worth pursuing in the future, but
concur with the Corresponding Editor that these tests for adaptation are outside the
scope of the present paper (which deals with correlation of evolutionary rates).
There is also a potential "multiple test" issue with subjecting the same dataset to
every possible statistical test; we accordingly use the dataset to test the hypothesis
we specifically set out to evaluate. We also note that Refs 1-4 did not insist on
these additional analyses.
5) Apparently, according to Rabosky and others, there may be a problem with the
likelihood function in BAMM, which could undermine conclusions here:http://bamm-
project.org/likelihoodmodel.html
We're not experts in the maths, but are prepared to provisionally accept Rabosky's
comments on this issue which are posted in the above link:
" But I should be clear about my view that none of this is likely to matter in
practice. And in any event, it’s testable. Just simulate data with rate shifts (some of
which may lead to extinct clades in their entirety), and see if it has any
consequences for inference about the set of processes inferred for the observed
part of the tree. We’ve done this and have found no consequences for inference, but
perhaps you’ll find something different."
Society Open
