Study on room temperature gas-sensing performance of
CuO film-decorated ordered porous ZnO composite by
In2O3 sensitization
Tian-tian Li, Na Bao, Ai-fang Geng, Hui Yu, Ying Yang and Xiang-ting Dong
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171788.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171788
Review timeline
Original submission: 7 November 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 3 January 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 8 January 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171788.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
© 2018 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The prepared materials had a good selectivity, excellent response, very low detection limit, high
sensitivity to NOx gas in room temperature, which has been uncommonly reported in the present
literatures.
1. Introduction: since the thin film-based gas sensors have been largely reported (such as optical
and electric mechanisms), the authors need to illustrate more clearly about the innovation of this
work. e.g., what are the advantages of the this materials as sensor?
2. How about the selectivity of the film sensing for NH3, H2S, NO2 (e.g., compared with other
gas, such as NO).
3. The detection limit for humidity can be evaluated for this sensor.
4. It is necessary to compare sensing performances (such as responsive time and recovery time) of
this thin film with other similar sensing materials. Otherwise, it is not persuasive.
5. How about the repeatability of their sensor materials in this work?
6. The authors can avoid use the words "excellent / superior". Also, the language level of the
manuscript should be further improved.
7. For the board areas of readers authors should add recent papers on 1D and 2D materials and
sensor applications. For example authors should add following important references. ACS Nano
7 (2013), 4879–4891; Nanoscale 7 (2015), 13293-13312; App. Phys. Lett. 105 (2014), 233103; ACS
Applied Materials & Interfaces 8 (2016), 11548–11556; Microporous and Mesoporous Materials
225, (2016) 494–503; ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 8 (2016), 3359–3365; Sensor Letters 14
(2016), 1249-1254; Chemistry Select 2 (2017), 4068-4075.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Major revision is needed (please make suggestions in comments)
3
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
This manuscript by Yu et al. describes preparing of In2O3 decorated CuO/ZnO composites and
their gas sensing performance to nitrogen oxide. The introducing of In2O3 increased the
sensitivity of CuO/ZnO composites to the NOx more than two times. However, there are some
questions should be answered and some information should be supplied before publishing.
Therefore I suggest a major revision of current manuscript. Followings are the comments and
suggestions:
1) The In2O3 doping in CuO/ZnO varied from 0.5 wt% to 6 wt%. Authors may provide the
corresponding In(NO3)3 solution concentration for the readers to reproduce the experiments.
Authors should provide the method used to determine the ratio of In2O3 in the composite. Was
the EDS used to calculate it? If so, EDS is not ideal method for quantitative calculation of low
loading components.
2) Response and recovery time of sensors are usually specified as time to rise to 90% of final
value. However, in the present manuscript, 85% ot the total resistance change ar used for
response and recovery time. Authors may provide some references for the standard selection. 3)
Did the introducing of In2O3 change the response/recovery time comparing with CuO/ZnO
composite? The data might be provided. And why the response time increased with decreasing
NOx concentration? Introducing In2O3 increases the response of the sensitivity and it was
explained in the manuscript. However, the reason why 1 wt% shows the highest increase was not
mentioned. Authors may provide the stability and reproducibility of the sensors, since it is
mentioned that “nsor exhibited a fast and reversible response to NOx”.
4)P16 L13-16: “It was clear that the response of the 1 wt% In2O3 CuO/ZnO gas sensor was much
higher, the minimum detection limit was much lower, and the corresponding response time was
much shorter than a lot of literature at room temperature.” Instead of qualitatively description,
quantitative values of sensing limitation and sensitivity and references are prefered.
5) The illustrated structure of the composite (Figure 7) might be put forward (e.g. Figure 5) to
help the readers have a brief understanding of the final structure of it.
6) The brief description of the sensing mechanism in page 4 might be combined with the
mechanism section at the end of the manuscript. Or, provide references with it at it current
location.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171788)
15-Dec-2017
Dear Professor Yu,
Title: Study on room temperature gas sensing performance of CuO film decorative ordered
porous ZnO composite by In2O3 sensibilization
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171788
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 07-Jan-2018). If we do not hear
4
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
Please also include the following statements alongside the other end statements. As we cannot
publish your manuscript without these end statements included, if you feel that a given heading
is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is
not relevant to your work.
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
James Moore
Publishing Editor, Journals
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Dunn.
5
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
(There are no comments.)
RSC Subject Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
(There are no comments.)
**********************************************
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The prepared materials had a good selectivity, excellent response, very low detection limit, high
sensitivity to NOx gas in room temperature, which has been uncommonly reported in the present
literatures.
1. Introduction: since the thin film-based gas sensors have been largely reported (such as optical
and electric mechanisms), the authors need to illustrate more clearly about the innovation of this
work. e.g., what are the advantages of the this materials as sensor?
2. How about the selectivity of the film sensing for NH3, H2S, NO2 (e.g., compared with other
gas, such as NO).
3. The detection limit for humidity can be evaluated for this sensor.
4. It is necessary to compare sensing performances (such as responsive time and recovery time) of
this thin film with other similar sensing materials. Otherwise, it is not persuasive.
5. How about the repeatability of their sensor materials in this work?
6. The authors can avoid use the words "excellent / superior". Also, the language level of the
manuscript should be further improved.
7. For the board areas of readers authors should add recent papers on 1D and 2D materials and
sensor applications. For example authors should add following important references. ACS Nano
7 (2013), 4879–4891; Nanoscale 7 (2015), 13293-13312; App. Phys. Lett. 105 (2014), 233103; ACS
Applied Materials & Interfaces 8 (2016), 11548–11556; Microporous and Mesoporous Materials
225, (2016) 494–503; ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 8 (2016), 3359–3365; Sensor Letters 14
(2016), 1249-1254; Chemistry Select 2 (2017), 4068-4075.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
This manuscript by Yu et al. describes preparing of In2O3 decorated CuO/ZnO composites and
their gas sensing performance to nitrogen oxide. The introducing of In2O3 increased the
sensitivity of CuO/ZnO composites to the NOx more than two times. However, there are some
questions should be answered and some information should be supplied before publishing.
Therefore I suggest a major revision of current manuscript. Followings are the comments and
suggestions:
1) The In2O3 doping in CuO/ZnO varied from 0.5 wt% to 6 wt%. Authors may provide the
corresponding In(NO3)3 solution concentration for the readers to reproduce the experiments.
Authors should provide the method used to determine the ratio of In2O3 in the composite. Was
the EDS used to calculate it? If so, EDS is not ideal method for quantitative calculation of low
loading components.
6
2) Response and recovery time of sensors are usually specified as time to rise to 90% of final
value. However, in the present manuscript, 85% ot the total resistance change ar used for
response and recovery time. Authors may provide some references for the standard selection. 3)
Did the introducing of In2O3 change the response/recovery time comparing with CuO/ZnO
composite? The data might be provided. And why the response time increased with decreasing
NOx concentration? Introducing In2O3 increases the response of the sensitivity and it was
explained in the manuscript. However, the reason why 1 wt% shows the highest increase was not
mentioned. Authors may provide the stability and reproducibility of the sensors, since it is
mentioned that “nsor exhibited a fast and reversible response to NOx”.
4)P16 L13-16: “It was clear that the response of the 1 wt% In2O3 CuO/ZnO gas sensor was much
higher, the minimum detection limit was much lower, and the corresponding response time was
much shorter than a lot of literature at room temperature.” Instead of qualitatively description,
quantitative values of sensing limitation and sensitivity and references are prefered.
5) The illustrated structure of the composite (Figure 7) might be put forward (e.g. Figure 5) to
help the readers have a brief understanding of the final structure of it.
6) The brief description of the sensing mechanism in page 4 might be combined with the
mechanism section at the end of the manuscript. Or, provide references with it at it current
location.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171788)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171788.R1)
08-Jan-2018
Dear Professor Yu:
Title: Study on room temperature gas sensing performance of CuO film decorative ordered
porous ZnO composite by In2O3 sensibilization
Manuscript ID: RSOS-171788.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Thomas Foley
Publishing Editor, Journals
7
Royal Society of Chemistry
Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF
Tel: +44 (0)1223 432516
Royal Society Open Science - Chemistry Editorial Office
On behalf of the Subject Editor Professor Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Dr Andrew
Dunn.
Appendix A
Response to Referees
Manuscript ID RSOS-171788
Title: Study on room temperature gas sensing performance of CuO film decorative
ordered porous ZnO composite by In2O3 sensibilization
Journal: Royal Society Open Science
Reviewer #1:
The prepared materials had a good selectivity, excellent response, very low
detection limit, high sensitivity to NOx gas in room temperature, which has been
uncommonly reported in the present literatures.
Question 1 Introduction: since the thin film-based gas sensors have been largely
reported (such as optical and electric mechanisms), the authors need to illustrate more
clearly about the innovation of this work. e.g., what are the advantages of this materials
as sensor?
Answer: Thanks for reviewer’s nice advice. The innovation of the work and the
advantages of this materials as sensor have been described in the last paragraph of
introduction. The changed contents have been marked in red. (See page 4-5 red part)
Question 2 How about the selectivity of the film sensing for NH3, H2S, NO2 (e.g.,
compared with other gas, such as NO).
Answer: Thanks for reviewer’s nice advice. The response of this sensor toward
different gases has been supplemented in the last paragraph of part 3.2. The
supplementary contents have been marked in red. (See page 15 Line 13-15 red part)
NOx gas is a mixture of NO and NO2 in this paper. According the references, the
nitric oxide (NOx) was often used as the target gas, but not used NO or NO2. It was
because the equilibrium reaction existed between NO and NO2, the pure NO or NO2
was difficultly obtained, and the sensing mechanisms of NO and NO2 were same. Some
literatures used the analogous method. (As down Ref. 1 - 3.)
[1] Ahmad, MZ, Chang, J, Ahmad, MS, Waclawik, ER, Wlodarski, W. 2012 Non-
aqueous synthesis of hexagonal ZnO nanopyramids: Gas sensing properties. Sensors
and Actuators B-Chemical 177, 286-294. (doi: 10.1016/j.snb.2012.11.013)
[2] Yang Y, Tian CG, Wang JC, Sun L, Shi KY, Zhou W, Fu HG. 2014 Facile
synthesis of novel 3D nanoflower-like CuxO/multilayer graphene composites for room
temperature NOx gas sensor application. Nanoscale 6, 7369-7378. (doi:
10.1039/c4nr00196f)
[3] Xu S, Gao J, Wang L, Kan K, Xie Y, Shen PK, Li L, Shi K. 2015 Role of the
heterojunctions in In2O3-composited SnO2 nanorods sensor and their remarkable gas-
sensing performance for NOx at room temperature. Nanoscale 7, 14643-14651. (doi:
10.1039/C5NR03796D)
About the selectivity of the film sensing to different gases, we selected the CO as a
representative of the reduced gases, which had the stronger reducibility than H2S. At
present, we have not H2S gas and its stored steel cylinder in our laboratory, and the time
was pressed if we purchased the H2S gas and its stored steel cylinder, and then tested
its selectivity in three weeks. We hope that the reviewers can pardon our difficult, and
we will be deeply grateful.
Question 3. The detection limit for humidity can be evaluated for this sensor.
Answer: Thanks for reviewer’s nice advice. Indeed, the humidity is one of the
significant factors in the gas sensing process, in which the degree of humidity
influences the sensing performance of oxide semiconductors. We have even studied the
influence of the humidity on the gas responses. However, the humidity has little effect
on NOx gas response in this study. Some literatures showed the analogous results. Ref.
1 and 2.
[1] L. Y. Yao, K. Kan, Y. F. Lin, J. B. Song, J. C. Wang, J. Gao, P. K. Shen, L. Liand
K. Y. Shi, Si doped highly crystal mesoporous In2O3 nanowires: synthesis,
characterization and ultra-high response to NOx at room temperature, RSC Adv., 2015,
5, 15515.
[2] F. M. Liu, Y. H. Guan, H. B. Sun, X. M. Xu, R. Z. Sun, X. S. Liang, P. Sun, Y.
Gao and G. Y. Lu, YSZ-based NO2 sensor utilizing hierarchical In2O3 electrode, Sens.
Actuators B: Chem. 2016, 222, 698.
We have given the influence of the humidity on the gas sensing properties in figure
7. All revises have been signed with the red. (See Page 16, 2-3 lines and Figure 7).
Question 4. It is necessary to compare sensing performances (such as responsive
time and recovery time) of this thin film with other similar sensing materials.
Otherwise, it is not persuasive.
Answer: Thanks for reviewer’s nice advice. We have compared the sensing
performances of this thin film with other similar sensing materials. The cited references
have been marked in red. (See page 15, Line 6-7 red part and references [39, 41-44])
Question 5. How about the repeatability of their sensor materials in this work?
Answer: Is it stability or repeatability? The repeatability has been appeared when
the response-recovery curves of 1 wt% In2O3-CuO/ZnO sensor was measured.
We have replenished the stability result in the paper. All revises have been signed
with the red. (See Page 16, down line 1-2 the red part and Figure 8).
Question 6. The authors can avoid use the words "excellent / superior". Also, the
language level of the manuscript should be further improved.
Answer: Thanks for reviewer’s nice advice. We have changed the words "excellent
/ superior", and the language has been modified. The replaced words have been marked
in red.
Question 7. For the board areas of readers authors should add recent papers
on 1D and 2D materials and sensor applications. For example, authors should add
following important references. ACS Nano 7 (2013), 4879–4891; Nanoscale 7
(2015), 13293-13312; App. Phys. Lett. 105 (2014), 233103; ACS Applied Materials
& Interfaces 8 (2016), 11548–11556; Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 225,
(2016) 494–503; ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 8 (2016), 3359-3365; Sensor
Letters 14 (2016), 1249-1254; Chemistry Select 2 (2017), 4068-4075.
Answer: Thanks for reviewer’s nice advice. The above literature has been cited. The
cited references have been marked in red (See page 3 12-15 line red part and references
[24-31]).
Reviewer #2:
This manuscript by Yu et al. describes preparing of In2O3 decorated CuO/ZnO
composites and their gas sensing performance to nitrogen oxide. The introducing of
In2O3 increased the sensitivity of CuO/ZnO composites to the NOx more than two times.
However, there are some questions should be answered and some information should
be supplied before publishing. Therefore, I suggest a major revision of current
manuscript. Followings are the comments and suggestions:
Question 1. The In2O3 doping in CuO/ZnO varied from 0.5 wt% to 6 wt%.
Authors may provide the corresponding In(NO3)3 solution concentration for the readers
to reproduce the experiments. Authors should provide the method used to determine the
ratio of In2O3 in the composite. Was the EDS used to calculate it? If so, EDS is not ideal
method for quantitative calculation of low loading components.
Answer: Thanks for reviewer’s nice advice. We have provided the corresponding
In(NO3)3 solution concentration for the readers to reproduce the experiments, and we
have provided the method used to determine the ratio of In2O3 in the composite. All
revises have been signed with the red. (See Page 7, the red part).
Question 2. Response and recovery time of sensors are usually specified as time
to rise to 90 % of final value. However, in the present manuscript, 85% to the total
resistance change are used for response and recovery time. Authors may provide some
references for the standard selection.
Answer: The relevant references has been provided. The relevant references have
been marked in red. (See Page 9 the red part and the references [38-40])
Question 3. Did the introducing of In2O3 change the response/recovery time
comparing with CuO/ZnO composite? The data might be provided. And why the
response time increased with decreasing NOx concentration? Introducing In2O3
increases the response of the sensitivity and it was explained in the manuscript.
However, the reason why 1 wt% shows the highest increase was not mentioned.
Authors may provide the stability and reproducibility of the sensors, since it is
mentioned that “sensor exhibited a fast and reversible response to NOx”.
Answer: Thanks for reviewer’s nice advice. At room temperature, the response and
response time of the sensors with the different In2O3 contents to 100 ppm NOx gas
have been showed in the supporting information Table S1 (See Page 13 the red part
and the supporting information Table S1). We have explained the reason of the
response time increased with decreasing NOx concentration (See Page 15 Line 9-10
the red part). We have explained the reason that the 1 wt% shows the highest increase.
(See Page 20-21 the red part).
The repeatability has been appeared when the response-recovery curves of 1 wt%
In2O3-CuO/ZnO sensor was measured. We have replenished the stability result in the
paper. All revises have been signed with the red. (See Page 16, the red part and Figure
8).
Question 4. P16 L13-16: “It was clear that the response of the 1 wt% In2O3
CuO/ZnO gas sensor was much higher, the minimum detection limit was much lower,
and the corresponding response time was much shorter than a lot of literature at room
temperature.” Instead of qualitatively description, quantitative values of sensing
limitation and sensitivity and references are prefered.
Answer: Thanks for reviewer’s nice advice. We have deleted the sentence, and we
have compared the sensing performances of this thin film with other similar sensing
materials. (See page 15, Line 6-7 red part and references [39, 41-44]).
Question 5. The illustrated structure of the composite (Figure 7) might be put
forward (e.g. Figure 5) to help the readers have a brief understanding of the final
structure of it.
Answer: Thanks for reviewer’s advice. But, the figure is a sensing mechanism
schematic diagram, the explanation about sensing mechanism will become much
troublesome if it is put forward. Such, we don’t suggest movement. We hope that the
reviewers can pardon, and we will be deeply grateful.
Question 6. The brief description of the sensing mechanism in page 4 might be
combined with the mechanism section at the end of the manuscript. Or, provide
references with it at it current location.
Answer: Thanks for reviewer’s nice advice. The brief description of the sensing
mechanism has been supplemented in page 4. (See page 4-5 red part).
Society Open
