Dust evolution, a global view: III. Core/mantle grains,
organic nano-globules, comets and surface chemistry
A. P. Jones
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 3: 160224.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160224
Review timeline
Original submission: 29 March 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 27 September 2016 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 4 November 2016 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160224.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable
© 2016 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
General comments
This is a fluently written review paper and appears to be commendably free of typographical and
grammatical errors. It presents an overview of the core-mantle model of interstellar dust
developed by the author and his collaborators. This model is not new but is re-examined in the
light of new observational constraints. It is not clear to me that the core-mantle model now has a
decisive edge over its main rival (bare graphite/silicate grains, as proposed by Draine and others,
who I imagine will also be taking these new observations on board). This reviewer has no
particular allegiance, but I do consider that one or two specific problems with the core-mantle
model are not discussed as fully as they should be. Overall, I am happy to recommend this paper
for publication, subject to consideration of my comments and suggestions below.
Specific comments and suggestions
1) I strongly recommend that the author take into greater consideration the constraints placed by
interstellar polarization and grain alignment. These are currently alluded to only very briefly - it
is acknowledged in passing that the 3.4 micron feature is unpolarized in the diffuse ISM, and the
same feature is also discussed in the context of observed polarization in the "ice band wing" (of
which more below). To my knowledge, the tightest constraints on the lack of polarization in the
diffuse-ISM 3.4 micron feature are those presented by Chiar et al (ApJ 651, 271, 2006), which
supersedes the cited ref. 58. Similarly, the graphite UV feature is unpolarized in almost every case
(various papers by Clayton et al), whereas the silicate feature is invariably polarized. Whilst not a
show-stopper, this bimodal behavior is clearly a challenge to the core-mantle model, as it implies
that carbonaceous mantles on silicates (or indeed carbonaceous matter in any large grains that
can be aligned) must not be hydrogenated. This needs to be addressed.
2) I think the case for carbonaceous dust as the (primary) absorber responsible for the ice band
wing is overstated. The source Mon R2 IRS3 chosen for comparison in fig.1 is not very typical.
The much smoother wings seen in (e.g.) Taurus field stars would place much tougher constraints
on how much C-H absorption can contribute to the wing. Scattering by large ice-mantled grains
in combination with absorption by H2O.NH3 groups may be more plausible (e.g. recent Annual
Review paper by Boogert et al and refs therein).
3) The proposal that O sequestration into carbonaceous grains can solve the "missing oxygen"
problem is attractive, but I worry that existing spectroscopic constraints may rule it out. Whittet
(ref. 63) estimated that O/C ratios as high as 0.5 would be required to quantitatively account for
the missing O, and this would surely produce observable features such as the carbonyl feature
near 5.8 microns that should be detectable in (e.g.) Cyg OB2 no.12. It is certainly important to
emphasize the need for more and better observations to test this.
4) Is "CO dark gas" a standard term? This reviewer had never heard it before! It is defined at the
start of section 3d without citing a reference.
3
5) It is implied in the introduction that dust has traditionally always been treated as a passive
surface on which molecules can form, but this is not strictly true. For example, Barlow and Silk
were discussing active surface chemistry as early as 1977 (ApJ, 215, 800). I recommend
rewording.
6) The statement on page 7 that no water ice is detected toward HD 29647 is incorrect. More
recent data of better quality than that in the cited ref. 39 showed the presence of a shallow ice
feature (e.g. Smith et al MNRAS, 263, 749, 1993).
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
According to the open data policy, "it is a condition of publication that authors make available the
data, code and research materials supporting the results in the article."
It is unclear if this would apply to the THEMIS code itself, which is the basis of the manuscript's
discussion. At the same time, the paper did not run any new models or make any new tests using
THEMIS, but instead compared elsewhere published features of the code to observations/data. I
leave this to the editor's discretion.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
The manuscript describes a series of outstanding issues regarding the physical nature of
interstellar dust, in particular to the composition and structure of grains, and suggests ways in
which the recently developed, physically-motivated THEMIS model may provide solutions. The
paper is structured perhaps more like a review than a scientific study; however, many of the
issues raised are fundamental in understanding the nature of dust. This paper provides valuable
broad outlines for observational tests, laboratory experiments, and general descriptions for how
to improve models of interstellar chemistry in regimes where the dust provides an active surface.
These ideas are important contributions meriting publication with some clarifications suggested
below. Such clarifications will help provide direction to the community on how to better search
for and test such effects or how to implement the key physics in numerical codes. The comments
below are provided in order with the text, with line numbers given by the PDF version of the
manuscript.
4
Page 1, line 20, Given that the paper does not provide detailed tests of the hypotheses presented, I
would suggest that the first part of "... investigates in detail the surface processes ..." be changed
to, "discusses" or "explores."
Page 2, line 36, "dust, chemistry and" -> "dust, chemistry, and"
Page 2, line 41, "... without dust in the ISM ..." This statement is strong given the extensive gas
phase chemistry expected to also occur.
Page 3 lines 33 and 34: define the a-C, a-C:H nomenclature when it is first used.
Page 3 line 35: "of the grains inner regions" -> grains' or grain's
Page 3 line 45: "...outer reaches of molecular clouds, where the UV radiation field is significantly
attenuated" -> What region is this sentence referring to? I would think outer regions implies
lower density meaning more UV? Perhaps provide an Av or density to clarify.
Page 3 line 47: What defines a second mantle (CMM) compared to just a thicker single mantle? A
significant change in composition? And in that instance, what defines significant?
Page 3 line 55 - Page 4 line 8: The discussion of the supernova coated silicate compared to the
model mantles doesn't seem to make a clear point given the size discrepancy between the model
silicates and that observed. Later in the text there is discussion regarding why the mantles
predicted from the models are thinner than observed, but perhaps here it would be better to say
that the silicate grain models predict thinner mantles than the carbonaceous grains models,
making the search intrinsically more difficult, i.e., without the numbers. It would also be useful to
add a sentence in the text about why this is. Is this an effect of material that was originally part of
the core being UV photoprocessed from a-C:H to a-C (i.e., Figure 4, Case II) while in the case of a
silicate core there is a distinct compositional bound between the core and the mantle?
Page 4 lines 34 and 49 do not seem to agree, i.e., "... the UV extinction bump does not correlate..."
and "...carbon depletions show variations ...coupled with systematic variations in the UV
extinction..." Which variations are you referring to? Please clarify.
Page 4 line 46, "large fraction" being?
Page 4 line 53: "... from tenuous to denser interstellar media..." transitions at what Av or gas
density?
Page 5 Figure 1, there appears to be some missing points from the bottom panel compared to the
top panel for the grey squares at ~ 3.35 microns. In addition, the caption could be more specific
about what's shown, specifically "made with a different baseline solution" instead of "re-
determined."
Page 6, second paragraph: This paragraph illustrates the importance of careful baseline
subtraction, stating that a linear fit recovers the broad features better than a polynomial fit.
However, Figure 2 presents polynomial model baselines. Are the linear or polynomial fits more
appropriate? Or is the point of this section to state that one can get a different interpretation of
the composition by using different baseline subtraction methods? Please clarify this paragraph.
Page 6 line 49: "standard model mantle composition" add "with Eg = 0.1 e.V".
5
Page 6 line 50- Page 7 line 33, based on the table and plot, materials with Eg > 1 eV require a
decrease in dust mass rather than an increase of dust mass as currently stated in the text to
explain the observed optical depth with such material. Should 1eV above be 0.1 eV?
Page 7 line 38: "evidence for this along lines of sight ..." Please add reference.
Page 7 line 48, "characterized by high column density and low extinction" -- Provide the type of
measurement for the column density, if it is not Av.
Page 8 Figure 3 caption: "normalized to the dust model" add something more specific, such as
"from the diffuse ISM constraints".
Page 9 line 31, There is a significant body of experimental work on UV processing of carbon
grains that could also be referenced here, i.e., dehydrogenation experiments of Munoz Caro et al.
2001 or perhaps Mennella et al. 2001?
Page 9 line 40: In the re-hydrogenation process, what is the main source hydrogen atoms to the
core? (that which counters the loss via UV photolysis). Along these lines, Figure 4 Case II
illustrates how a layered structure can be set up at low optical depth. Re-hydrogenation from the
gas would happen in the surface (at the mantle) rather than the core if it comes from external H.
Are the hydrogen atoms in the core coming from the recombination of dissociated a-C:H in the
grain core where the H atom cannot escape due to, e.g., limited mobility? In that case, the core-
mantle boundary should also be set by grain temperature in addition to UV field, analgous to the
monolayer-dependent photodesorption of water that has been found via lab experiments and
numerical models such as Arasa et al. 2015.
Page 10 line 56: Regarding Case II "... ought to lead to wider dust variations", what in particular
are the variations referred to? Thickness of ice mantle? Wouldn't the thickness in Case I also
depend on the conditions, in particular the total evolutionary time to build up a mantle?
Page 12 line 43: "CH and OH are formed earlier than C2..." The reference paper, the Welty et al.
2014 conference proceeding, mentions that these species form as soon as H2 exists. The H to H2
transition happens around 1 Av, and the most recent astrochemical models have substantial
water ice mantles developed quite early, by an Av of 1 (see Furuya, van Dishoeck and Aikawa et
al. 2016) with predicted H2O ice to H2 abundances of 8.5e-4, almost half of the volatile ice budget.
At these extinctions, the OH could be directly produced by photodesorption of water ice into
OH+H fragments. How does the efficiency compare between water ice photodesorption and UV
irradiated epoxide for OH production?
Page 13, Figure 5 is not referenced until page 21, after Figure 11 is referenced. Please place in
context with the section it appears in or re-order the figures.
Page 13 line 36: The "epoxy-like nature of cometary organics" needs a reference. Reference 67 is to
an LPSC conference proceeding from 2009, with no apparent reference of solubility in epoxy.
Please clarify.
Page 13 line 50: Many of these species readily form in the gas phase, CO, CN, CS, HCN/HNC.
How do these surface reactions compare in efficiency to the known gas phase channels?
Page 14, Figure 6 is also not referenced until much later in the text. Re-order or add discussion to
the text of the figure.
6
Page 14, paragraph beginning at line 43 and the following paragraph contain no references. Some
additional references here would be helpful for the reader (if possible).
Page 17, regarding ethylene oxide there are new astrochemical models incorporating recent
experimental results in Occhiogrosso et al. 2012 emphasizing the importance of grain surface
chemistry that should be mentioned or referenced.
Page 18 line 55: "... where the grains are ice-mantled, ethene is not detected" and the following
sentences, does this imply that the surface activated chemistry shuts off when a substantial ice
mantle forms? At what ice to dust mass ratio does ice chemistry not depend on the substrate
properties?
Page 19, section (d). The CO dark gas has also been explained as a difference in self-shielding
between CO and H2, e.g,. models by Rowan Smith (e.g., Smith, Glover et al. 2014) and others. CO
is photodissociated at higher Av than H2, which has been shown to be consistent with the CO-
dark observations. This section of the paper simultaneously discusses the oxygen depletion
problem, which would imply that dissociation wouldn't work as it would return oxygen to the
gas. What is the specific environment (extinction, density) that this section refers to? Along these
lines, these two process to explain CO dark gas (photodissociation or incorporation into ices)
would have substantially different carbon isotope signatures. Are there any existing or future
constraints to test this theory being the source of CO dark gas?
Page 20 line 25: The final paragraph is out of place compared to those preceding. Please elaborate
on these comments about highly excited CO and warm dust providing a link.
Page 20 line 47: Are there lab experiments for atomic ions like S+ reacting with grain surfaces?
Are these more often productive than dissociative, even for a neutral substrate?
Page 21 line 57: typo, "carbon.Interesting..."
Page 22-23: The paragraph headings don't follow the style of the paper. Removing the headings
and keeping the paragraph structure would fit in with the overall paper structure better.
Page 23: The discussion of the inner hollow globules under "Evolution": How does the core get
removed without disrupting the outer mantle? The final sentence beginning with: "However, this
scenario requires that icy grains form before..." Given the multilayered structure of the grains
predicted by THEMIS, could the first co-deposited or co-formed ices at the initial phases create a
more volatile core that is more easily disrupted during heating? Is a carbon rich core coated with
ices and then coated again with a second a:C mantle a viable structure? This relates to a previous
question, namely, why does the grown of a-C:H mantles shut off?
Page 24: Only cold-phase nitrogen fractionation chemistry is mentioned, but nitrogen
fractionation via selective photodissociation will also play an important role where UV photons
are present (i.e., Heays et al. 2014).
Page 24, line 53: Could this chemical pathway be related to the OCN- tentative identification of
Oberg, Boogert, et al. 2011 in ice absorption measurements?
Page 25 line 39: This comment on the Rosetta COSAC results is somewhat misleading given the
information provided by other instruments, such as the ROSINA mass spectrometer, that showed
very high CO and CO2 abundances and also did detect NH3 in the coma of 67P at the 0.9% level
relative to water. The ROSINA results (e.g., Marty et al. 2016) should be mentioned here as well.
7
Page 27 lines 17 and 31: One of the key and thought to be perhaps primary formation routes for
CO2 in ice is CO+OH on grains. Even with a small barrier, simulations find it to be very efficient,
such as those presented by Garrod and Pauly 2011.
Page 27 lines 41-44: statements (i), (iii) and (iv) require references.
Page 28 line 37: It would be unlikely for CO2 and H2O formation to occur with equal efficiency as
stated, given the experimentally measured differences in diffusion properties of H (to form water
ice, where H atoms are highly mobile) compared to that of CO, O, or OH to form CO2 ice, e.g.,
Garrod and Pauly 2011 and references therein.
Page 28 line 47: At the temperatures present in dense clouds (< 20 K), there should be no
appreciable CO2 remaining in the gas given its high desorption temperature (> 30 K).
Page 29 line 9: The referenced Whittet et al. 2011 paper claims in the abstract "The abundance of
solid-phase CH3OH in this environment is sufficient to account for observed gas-phase
abundances when the ices are subsequently desorbed in the vicinity of embedded stars." which is
different from what is currently stated in the manuscript and attributed to this reference
regarding methanol ice: "... that it is also way more abundant than that required to explain the
observed gas phase methanol abundances." Please clarify or rephrase to agree with the citation. Is
it too abundant or is it sufficient?
Page 30, section (e), there is no mention of the ROSINA NH3 detections in comet 67P or an
equivalent accounting of the C/O/N disposition with respect to the coma.
Page 32, first sentence of the summary: "... much more complicated than has previously been
given consideration..." I would rephrase this given that the complexity of dust has been
considered in the decades worth of - in particular - experimental work on carbonaceous grain
irradiation, destruction, and growth, among other aspects, and how dust composition responds
to environmental conditions, especially UV. Perhaps something along the lines of "physics and
chemistry of interstellar dust plays a more active role in the chemistry of the ISM than has
previously..."?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160224)
14-Jun-2016
Dear Dr Jones,
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160224 entitled
"Dust evolution, a global view: III. Core/mantle grains, organic nano-globules, comets and
surface chemistry" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at
the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
8
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160224
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 23-Jun-2016). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
9
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) Included your supplementary files in a format you are happy with (no line numbers,
vancouver referencing, track changes removed etc) as these files will NOT be edited in
production
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Best wishes
Andrew Dunn
Senior Publishing Editor, Royal Society Open Science
on behalf of Rob Ivison
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Associate Editor Comments to Author ( Dr Loretta Dunne):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
Dear Prof Jones
The reviewer has sent a positive report on your paper and has recommended acceptance after
minor, but important, revision. We look forward to receiving an updated manuscript and
response to the reviewer’s comments in due course.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
General comments
This is a fluently written review paper and appears to be commendably free of typographical and
grammatical errors. It presents an overview of the core-mantle model of interstellar dust
developed by the author and his collaborators. This model is not new but is re-examined in the
light of new observational constraints. It is not clear to me that the core-mantle model now has a
decisive edge over its main rival (bare graphite/silicate grains, as proposed by Draine and others,
who I imagine will also be taking these new observations on board). This reviewer has no
particular allegiance, but I do consider that one or two specific problems with the core-mantle
model are not discussed as fully as they should be. Overall, I am happy to recommend this paper
for publication, subject to consideration of my comments and suggestions below.
Specific comments and suggestions
1) I strongly recommend that the author take into greater consideration the constraints placed by
interstellar polarization and grain alignment. These are currently alluded to only very briefly - it
10
is acknowledged in passing that the 3.4 micron feature is unpolarized in the diffuse ISM, and the
same feature is also discussed in the context of observed polarization in the "ice band wing" (of
which more below). To my knowledge, the tightest constraints on the lack of polarization in the
diffuse-ISM 3.4 micron feature are those presented by Chiar et al (ApJ 651, 271, 2006), which
supersedes the cited ref. 58. Similarly, the graphite UV feature is unpolarized in almost every case
(various papers by Clayton et al), whereas the silicate feature is invariably polarized. Whilst not a
show-stopper, this bimodal behavior is clearly a challenge to the core-mantle model, as it implies
that carbonaceous mantles on silicates (or indeed carbonaceous matter in any large grains that
can be aligned) must not be hydrogenated. This needs to be addressed.
2) I think the case for carbonaceous dust as the (primary) absorber responsible for the ice band
wing is overstated. The source Mon R2 IRS3 chosen for comparison in fig.1 is not very typical.
The much smoother wings seen in (e.g.) Taurus field stars would place much tougher constraints
on how much C-H absorption can contribute to the wing. Scattering by large ice-mantled grains
in combination with absorption by H2O.NH3 groups may be more plausible (e.g. recent Annual
Review paper by Boogert et al and refs therein).
3) The proposal that O sequestration into carbonaceous grains can solve the "missing oxygen"
problem is attractive, but I worry that existing spectroscopic constraints may rule it out. Whittet
(ref. 63) estimated that O/C ratios as high as 0.5 would be required to quantitatively account for
the missing O, and this would surely produce observable features such as the carbonyl feature
near 5.8 microns that should be detectable in (e.g.) Cyg OB2 no.12. It is certainly important to
emphasize the need for more and better observations to test this.
4) Is "CO dark gas" a standard term? This reviewer had never heard it before! It is defined at the
start of section 3d without citing a reference.
5) It is implied in the introduction that dust has traditionally always been treated as a passive
surface on which molecules can form, but this is not strictly true. For example, Barlow and Silk
were discussing active surface chemistry as early as 1977 (ApJ, 215, 800). I recommend
rewording.
6) The statement on page 7 that no water ice is detected toward HD 29647 is incorrect. More
recent data of better quality than that in the cited ref. 39 showed the presence of a shallow ice
feature (e.g. Smith et al MNRAS, 263, 749, 1993).
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160224)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-160224.R1 (Revision)
label_author_3
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
11
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_3
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The author has made appropriate revisions to the manuscript in response to my original report
and I am therefore happy to recommend acceptance for publication.
label_author_4
Review form: Reviewer 2
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not applicable.
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_4
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
I am satisfied with the responses provided to my comments and recommend this manuscript for
publication in Royal Society Open Science. Thank you for such an interesting series of
contributions!
12
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160224.R1)
04-Nov-2016
Dear Anthony,
I am delighted to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Dust evolution, a global view: III.
Core/mantle grains, organic nano-globules, comets and surface chemistry" is now accepted for
publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_7
I am satisfied with the responses provided to my comments and recommend this manuscript for
publication in Royal Society Open Science. Thank you for such an interesting series of
contributions!
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_8
The author has made appropriate revisions to the manuscript in response to my original report
and I am therefore happy to recommend acceptance for publication.
Appendix A
PAPER III
Associate Editor Comments to Author (Dr Loretta Dunne):
Associate Editor: 1
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_9
Dear Prof Jones
The reviewer has sent a positive report on your paper and has recommended acceptance after minor,
but important, revision. We look forward to receiving an updated manuscript and response to the
reviewer’s comments in due course.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_10
General comments
This is a fluently written review paper and appears to be commendably free of typographical and
grammatical errors. It presents an overview of the core-mantle model of interstellar dust developed by
the author and his collaborators. This model is not new but is re-examined in the light of new
observational constraints. It is not clear to me that the core-mantle model now has a decisive edge over
its main rival (bare graphite/silicate grains, as proposed by Draine and others, who I imagine will also be
taking these new observations on board). This reviewer has no particular allegiance, but I do consider
that one or two specific problems with the core-mantle model are not discussed as fully as they should
be. Overall, I am happy to recommend this paper for publication, subject to consideration of my
comments and suggestions below.
>>> I thank the referee for the kind words and have tried to take into account all of the referee’s
suggestions in the revised version of the manuscript, which I hope have led to some significant, and
hopefully interesting, additions to the manuscript (see below).
>>> All changes and additions have been highlighted in blue throughout.
Specific comments and suggestions
1) I strongly recommend that the author take into greater consideration the constraints placed by
interstellar polarization and grain alignment. These are currently alluded to only very briefly - it is
acknowledged in passing that the 3.4 micron feature is unpolarized in the diffuse ISM, and the same
feature is also discussed in the context of observed polarization in the "ice band wing" (of which more
below). To my knowledge, the tightest constraints on the lack of polarization in the diffuse-ISM 3.4
micron feature are those presented by Chiar et al (ApJ 651, 271, 2006), which supersedes the cited ref.
58. Similarly, the graphite UV feature is unpolarized in almost every case (various papers by Clayton et
al), whereas the silicate feature is invariably polarized. Whilst not a show-stopper, this bimodal behavior
is clearly a challenge to the core-mantle model, as it implies that carbonaceous mantles on silicates (or
indeed carbonaceous matter in any large grains that can be aligned) must not be hydrogenated. This
needs to be addressed.
>>> I thank the referee for raising this issue that was obviously not made clear enough in the original
submission. This constraint was addressed in the Jones et al. (2013) dust model paper but obviously
needs to be explained in more detail here. Fig. 5 in that paper shows the absorption profiles in the 3
micron region for all three of the dust model components. The 3 micron CH band is apparent in the
spectra of the carbon grains but not at all in the a-C mantled silicates. This is because the mantle is thin
and the silicate grain extinction and emission is dominated by the silicate core material. This has now
been explained in a new paragraph on page 8 of the revised version.
2) I think the case for carbonaceous dust as the (primary) absorber responsible for the ice band wing is
overstated. The source Mon R2 IRS3 chosen for comparison in fig.1 is not very typical. The much
smoother wings seen in (e.g.) Taurus field stars would place much tougher constraints on how much C-
H absorption can contribute to the wing. Scattering by large ice-mantled grains in combination with
absorption by H2O.NH3 groups may be more plausible (e.g. recent Annual Review paper by Boogert et
al and refs therein).
>>> With all due respect to the referee, I disagree with this because it seems as though the
observational evidence does point towards the red wing having the same threshold extinction as the 3
micron OH stretching band (Smith et al, 1993). This is made rather clear in this paper, which was kindly
pointed out by the referee and is one that I had neglected to include.
In this case, and at the onset of “ice” mantle formation, the grains cannot yet have grown large enough
for scattering to have become an important effect (Smith et al. 1993). The idea proposed here for the
origin of the red wing is that it is not simply due to C-H absorptions but is predominantly due to C=O
absorption on functionalised a-C:H grain surfaces, which will also exhibit superimposed but weaker C-
H_n (n=1-3) absorptions.
3) The proposal that O sequestration into carbonaceous grains can solve the "missing oxygen" problem
is attractive, but I worry that existing spectroscopic constraints may rule it out. Whittet (ref. 63)
estimated that O/C ratios as high as 0.5 would be required to quantitatively account for the missing O,
and this would surely produce observable features such as the carbonyl feature near 5.8 microns that
should be detectable in (e.g.) Cyg OB2 no.12. It is certainly important to emphasize the need for more
and better observations to test this.
>>> A reference to Whittet (2010) and a suggestion to further test the hypothesis has been added to
the text here.
4) Is "CO dark gas" a standard term? This reviewer had never heard it before! It is defined at the start
of section 3d without citing a reference.
>>> This has now been re-worded to make the sense of “CO-dark” gas clearer and an explanatory
footnote added.
5) It is implied in the introduction that dust has traditionally always been treated as a passive surface on
which molecules can form, but this is not strictly true. For example, Barlow and Silk were discussing
active surface chemistry as early as 1977 (ApJ, 215, 800). I recommend rewording.
>>> This omission has been corrected, a couple of other citations given, the text re-worded and a new
footnote added.
6) The statement on page 7 that no water ice is detected toward HD 29647 is incorrect. More recent
data of better quality than that in the cited ref. 39 showed the presence of a shallow ice feature (e.g.
Smith et al MNRAS, 263, 749, 1993).
>>> I thank the referee for pointing out this oversight. The Smith et al. (1993) reference has been
added and the text modified accordingly.
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_11
The manuscript describes a series of outstanding issues regarding the physical nature of interstellar
dust, in particular to the composition and structure of grains, and suggests ways in which the recently
developed, physically-motivated THEMIS model may provide solutions. The paper is structured perhaps
more like a review than a scientific study; however, many of the issues raised are fundamental in
understanding the nature of dust. This paper provides valuable broad outlines for observational tests,
laboratory experiments, and general descriptions for how to improve models of interstellar chemistry in
regimes where the dust provides an active surface. These ideas are important contributions meriting
publication with some clarifications suggested below. Such clarifications will help provide direction to the
community on how to better search for and test such effects or how to implement the key physics in
numerical codes. The comments below are provided in order with the text, with line numbers given by
the PDF version of the manuscript.
>>> I thank the referee for a very careful and thorough reading of the manuscript and the many useful
suggestions. I have tried to take into account all of the referee’s suggestions in the revised version of
the manuscript, which I hope have led to the necessary clarifications.
All changes and additions have been highlighted in blue throughout.
Page 1, line 20, Given that the paper does not provide detailed tests of the hypotheses presented, I
would suggest that the first part of "... investigates in detail the surface processes ..." be changed to,
"discusses" or "explores."
>>> Changed to “explores”.
Page 2, line 36, "dust, chemistry and" -> "dust, chemistry, and"
>>> Here and throughout I adopt the English preference for not using the serial comma. This is
therefore left unchanged.
Page 2, line 41, "... without dust in the ISM ..." This statement is strong given the extensive gas phase
chemistry expected to also occur.
>>> The wording was modified here.
Page 3 lines 33 and 34: define the a-C, a-C:H nomenclature when it is first used. Page 3 line 35: "of the
grains inner regions" -> grains' or grain's
>>> Done.
Page 3 line 45: "...outer reaches of molecular clouds, where the UV radiation field is significantly
attenuated" -> What region is this sentence referring to? I would think outer regions implies lower
density meaning more UV? Perhaps provide an Av or density to clarify.
>>> The typical values of A_V and n_H have now been cited.
Page 3 line 47: What defines a second mantle (CMM) compared to just a thicker single mantle? A
significant change in composition? And in that instance, what defines significant?
>>> This is now indicated as being a compositionally-distinct second mantle, i.e., and a-C:H mantle on
top of the first a-C mantle.
Page 3 line 55 - Page 4 line 8: The discussion of the supernova coated silicate compared to the model
mantles doesn't seem to make a clear point given the size discrepancy between the model silicates and
that observed. Later in the text there is discussion regarding why the mantles predicted from the models
are thinner than observed, but perhaps here it would be better to say that the silicate grain models
predict thinner mantles than the carbonaceous grains models, making the search intrinsically more
difficult, i.e., without the numbers. It would also be useful to add a sentence in the text about why this
is. Is this an effect of material that was originally part of the core being UV photoprocessed from a-C:H
to a-C (i.e., Figure 4, Case II) while in the case of a silicate core there is a distinct compositional bound
between the core and the mantle?
>>> The numbers in brackets have been removed and some further explanation added to make this
clearer.
Page 4 lines 34 and 49 do not seem to agree, i.e., "... the UV extinction bump does not correlate..." and
"...carbon depletions show variations ...coupled with systematic variations in the UV extinction..." Which
variations are you referring to? Please clarify.
>>> This has now been clarified.
Page 4 line 46, "large fraction" being?
>>> The numbers are now given.
Page 4 line 53: "... from tenuous to denser interstellar media..." transitions at what Av or gas density?
>>> The relevant A_V and n_H ranges are once again given.
Page 5 Figure 1, there appears to be some missing points from the bottom panel compared to the top
panel for the grey squares at ~ 3.35 microns. In addition, the caption could be more specific about
what's shown, specifically "made with a different baseline solution" instead of "re-determined."
>>> The referee does indeed have a sharp eye. Thank you for noticing this discrepancy. The data in
each sub-plot were normalised differently and this has now been corrected in the new version of both
panels.
The figure caption has been completely updated.
Page 6, second paragraph: This paragraph illustrates the importance of careful baseline subtraction,
stating that a linear fit recovers the broad features better than a polynomial fit. However, Figure 2
presents polynomial model baselines. Are the linear or polynomial fits more appropriate? Or is the point
of this section to state that one can get a different interpretation of the composition by using different
baseline subtraction methods? Please clarify this paragraph.
>>> This has now been clarified and the paragraph split into two.
Page 6 line 49: "standard model mantle composition" add "with Eg = 0.1 e.V".
>>> Done.
Page 6 line 50- Page 7 line 33, based on the table and plot, materials with Eg > 1 eV require a decrease
in dust mass rather than an increase of dust mass as currently stated in the text to explain the observed
optical depth with such material. Should 1eV above be 0.1 eV?
>>> No this is not correct and probably a result of some confusion over the normalisation used here.
The normalisation of the data in the figure and the table means that the numbers actually indicate the
additional material required, in addition to the original mantle material with Eg = 0.1 eV, in order to fit
the observational data. This has now been clarified in the text and figure and table captions have been
modified to make things clearer.
Page 7 line 38: "evidence for this along lines of sight ..." Please add reference.
>>> References added.
Page 7 line 48, "characterized by high column density and low extinction" -- Provide the type of
measurement for the column density, if it is not Av.
>>> Now given.
Page 8 Figure 3 caption: "normalized to the dust model" add something more specific, such as "from the
diffuse ISM constraints".
>>> The figure caption has been re-worded to make the sense of the normalisation clearer.
Page 9 line 31, There is a significant body of experimental work on UV processing of carbon grains that
could also be referenced here, i.e., dehydrogenation experiments of Munoz Caro et al. 2001 or perhaps
Mennella et al. 2001?
>>> Both of the suggested references have been added.
Page 9 line 40: In the re-hydrogenation process, what is the main source hydrogen atoms to the core?
(that which counters the loss via UV photolysis). Along these lines, Figure 4 Case II illustrates how a
layered structure can be set up at low optical depth. Re-hydrogenation from the gas would happen in
the surface (at the mantle) rather than the core if it comes from external H. Are the hydrogen atoms in
the core coming from the recombination of dissociated a-C:H in the grain core where the H atom cannot
escape due to, e.g., limited mobility? In that case, the core-mantle boundary should also be set by grain
temperature in addition to UV field, analgous to the monolayer-dependent photodesorption of water that
has been found via lab experiments and numerical models such as Arasa et al. 2015.
>>> The referee makes a good point about H atom mobility. However, given that the grain temperature
depends on the radiation field, things are seemingly still far from discernable. These possible scenarios
are now discussed in section 2(d).
Page 10 line 56: Regarding Case II "... ought to lead to wider dust variations", what in particular are the
variations referred to? Thickness of ice mantle? Wouldn't the thickness in Case I also depend on the
conditions, in particular the total evolutionary time to build up a mantle?
>>> These issues have now been addressed and the text clarified. In fact, Case I and II apply only to
the low-density diffuse ISM where accretion is not significant and so mantle growth is not a critical
issue.
Page 12 line 43: "CH and OH are formed earlier than C2..." The reference paper, the Welty et al. 2014
conference proceeding, mentions that these species form as soon as H2 exists. The H to H2 transition
happens around 1 Av, and the most recent astrochemical models have substantial water ice mantles
developed quite early, by an Av of 1 (see Furuya, van Dishoeck and Aikawa et al. 2016) with predicted
H2O ice to H2 abundances of 8.5e-4, almost half of the volatile ice budget. At these extinctions, the OH
could be directly produced by photodesorption of water ice into OH+H fragments. How does the
efficiency compare between water ice photodesorption and UV irradiated epoxide for OH production?
>>> The referencing to the Welty et al. paper has now been tidied up. The question of OH formation is
indeed interesting and the problem of OH formation is discussed in paper I of this series. However, this
point is key here and so reference has been made to paper I and a brief summary of the key results
presented here.
Page 13, Figure 5 is not referenced until page 21, after Figure 11 is referenced. Please place in context
with the section it appears in or re-order the figures.
>>> The figures have been re-ordered and appropriately referenced and discussed in the text.
Page 13 line 36: The "epoxy-like nature of cometary organics" needs a reference. Reference 67 is to an
LPSC conference proceeding from 2009, with no apparent reference of solubility in epoxy. Please clarify.
>>> This is actually implicit in the given reference (old reference. 67) and so this has been cited again
here.
Page 13 line 50: Many of these species readily form in the gas phase, CO, CN, CS, HCN/HNC. How do
these surface reactions compare in efficiency to the known gas phase channels?
>>> A comment on this has been included to the effect that it is, unfortunately, too soon to try and
make this comparison because many of the relevant mechanisms and rates are not yet determined
experimentally.
Page 14, Figure 6 is also not referenced until much later in the text. Re-order or add discussion to the
text of the figure.
>>> Same as above with reference to Fig. 5.
Page 14, paragraph beginning at line 43 and the following paragraph contain no references. Some
additional references here would be helpful for the reader (if possible).
>>> It would be rather difficult to give suitable references here because most of what is described here
is actually rather “standard” within the chemistry community. In fact, most of the information here can
be found on chemistry websites and elsewhere. Thus, any particular citations would be rather unfair to
all those who work in this area and a poor reference for the reader. A remark somewhat to this effect
has been added.
Page 17, regarding ethylene oxide there are new astrochemical models incorporating recent
experimental results in Occhiogrosso et al. 2012 emphasizing the importance of grain surface chemistry
that should be mentioned or referenced.
>>> The interesting Occhiogrosso et al. (2012, 2014) results and conclusions were indeed already cited
on page 18 (also page 18 in the new version). These works are now also cited earlier on page 17.
Page 18 line 55: "... where the grains are ice-mantled, ethene is not detected" and the following
sentences, does this imply that the surface activated chemistry shuts off when a substantial ice mantle
forms? At what ice to dust mass ratio does ice chemistry not depend on the substrate properties?
>>> Some additional text has been added on page 18 to make the meaning and implications clearer.
Page 19, section (d). The CO dark gas has also been explained as a difference in self-shielding between
CO and H2, e.g,. models by Rowan Smith (e.g., Smith, Glover et al. 2014) and others. CO is
photodissociated at higher Av than H2, which has been shown to be consistent with the CO-dark
observations. This section of the paper simultaneously discusses the oxygen depletion problem, which
would imply that dissociation wouldn't work as it would return oxygen to the gas. What is the specific
environment (extinction, density) that this section refers to? Along these lines, these two process to
explain CO dark gas (photodissociation or incorporation into ices) would have substantially different
carbon isotope signatures. Are there any existing or future constraints to test this theory being the
source of CO dark gas?
>>> A more detailed explanation of the physical conditions of the “CO-dark” clouds is now given in the
text an also in a new footnote on page 19. A possible test/prediction of this scenario has also been
suggested on page 20.
Page 20 line 25: The final paragraph is out of place compared to those preceding. Please elaborate on
these comments about highly excited CO and warm dust providing a link.
>>> The paragraph has been modified to make the relevance to this section much clearer.
Page 20 line 47: Are there lab experiments for atomic ions like S+ reacting with grain surfaces? Are
these more often productive than dissociative, even for a neutral substrate?
>>> I am not aware of any experiments but have added this as a suggestion for experimental testing.
Page 21 line 57: typo, "carbon.Interesting..."
>>> Done.
Page 22-23: The paragraph headings don't follow the style of the paper. Removing the headings and
keeping the paragraph structure would fit in with the overall paper structure better.
>>> These headings have now been removed as suggested.
Page 23: The discussion of the inner hollow globules under "Evolution": How does the core get removed
without disrupting the outer mantle?
>>> This issue is now mentioned on page 25, in the text and in a footnote.
The final sentence beginning with: "However, this scenario requires that icy grains form before..." Given
the multilayered structure of the grains predicted by THEMIS, could the first co-deposited or co-formed
ices at the initial phases create a more volatile core that is more easily disrupted during heating? Is a
carbon rich core coated with ices and then coated again with a second a:C mantle a viable structure?
>>> I don’t think that this is at all viable because the least volatile species (C, S, …) will accrete first
followed by the more volatile species (H2O, CO, …). Thus, the only physically-viable structures are with
the a-C:H on the inside and ice on the outside.
This relates to a previous question, namely, why does the grown of a-C:H mantles shut off?
>>> It is likely that a-C:H mantle growth shuts off because most of the available gas phase carbon has
been accreted.
Page 24: Only cold-phase nitrogen fractionation chemistry is mentioned, but nitrogen fractionation via
selective photodissociation will also play an important role where UV photons are present (i.e., Heays et
al. 2014).
>>> This has now been pointed out as a possible additional source of fractionation.
Page 24, line 53: Could this chemical pathway be related to the OCN- tentative identification of Oberg,
Boogert, et al. 2011 in ice absorption measurements?
>>> A sentence on this interesting link has been aded on page 27.
Page 25 line 39: This comment on the Rosetta COSAC results is somewhat misleading given the
information provided by other instruments, such as the ROSINA mass spectrometer, that showed very
high CO and CO2 abundances and also did detect NH3 in the coma of 67P at the 0.9% level relative to
water. The ROSINA results (e.g., Marty et al. 2016) should be mentioned here as well.
>>> This is now mentioned.
Page 27 lines 17 and 31: One of the key and thought to be perhaps primary formation routes for CO2 in
ice is CO+OH on grains. Even with a small barrier, simulations find it to be very efficient, such as those
presented by Garrod and Pauly 2011.
>>> I thank the referee for point ing out this interesting work. The text has now been modified and this
work referenced.
Page 27 lines 41-44: statements (i), (iii) and (iv) require references.
>>> Done.
Page 28 line 37: It would be unlikely for CO2 and H2O formation to occur with equal efficiency as stated,
given the experimentally measured differences in diffusion properties of H (to form water ice, where H
atoms are highly mobile) compared to that of CO, O, or OH to form CO2 ice, e.g., Garrod and Pauly
2011 and references therein.
>>> I disagree with this because, as implied earlier in this same item, the rate determining steps are
the O atom and CO molecule addition rates on to the surface and not the H atom mobility. This has now
been made clearer in the revised version.
Page 28 line 47: At the temperatures present in dense clouds (< 20 K), there should be no appreciable
CO2 remaining in the gas given its high desorption temperature (> 30 K).
>>> This was implied in the original version. Nevertheless, the wording has been modified and a
footnote added in order to make this clearer.
Page 29 line 9: The referenced Whittet et al. 2011 paper claims in the abstract "The abundance of solid-
phase CH3OH in this environment is sufficient to account for observed gas-phase abundances when the
ices are subsequently desorbed in the vicinity of embedded stars." which is different from what is
currently stated in the manuscript and attributed to this reference regarding methanol ice: "... that it is
also way more abundant than that required to explain the observed gas phase methanol abundances."
Please clarify or rephrase to agree with the citation. Is it too abundant or is it sufficient?
>>> I thank the referee for catching this. I stand by this statement for quiescent molecular clouds
(Whittet et al. 2011; see Section 3, page 5) and have modified the text accordingly to make the
distinction between the apparent disparate behaviour of methanol in embedded sources and in quiescent
molecular clouds.
Page 30, section (e), there is no mention of the ROSINA NH3 detections in comet 67P or an equivalent
accounting of the C/O/N disposition with respect to the coma.
>>> The coma composition results have now also been mentioned here.
Page 32, first sentence of the summary: "... much more complicated than has previously been given
consideration..." I would rephrase this given that the complexity of dust has been considered in the
decades worth of - in particular - experimental work on carbonaceous grain irradiation, destruction, and
growth, among other aspects, and how dust composition responds to environmental conditions,
especially UV. Perhaps something along the lines of "physics and chemistry of interstellar dust plays a
more active role in the chemistry of the ISM than has previously..."?
>>> This suggestion has been closely followed and the first sentence of the summary re-written.
Society Open
