1
Molecular evidence for the first records of facultative
parthenogenesis in elapid snakes
L. Allen, K. L. Sanders and V. A. Thomson
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 5: 171901.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.171901
Review timeline
Original submission: 14 December 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 18 January 2018 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 18 January 2018 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-171901.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This manuscript documents facultative parthenogenesis in two species of elapid snakes. The analysis
appears to be well-done, and my only criticisms are (1) insufficient attention to detail in the text, with
too many typographical errors; and (2) there are no data from broods of these species produced NON-
parthenogentically, which would have been a better comparison than the current one (in which the
putative father, plus the mother, are the only sexually-produced individuals included).
Page 2 line 7 Abstract - is NOT yet known
Page 3 line 46 words are missing?
Page 4 line 40 – Slater not Slatter; and this reference is not listed in the Literature Cited
Page 5 line 10 – “bred raised”?
Page 13 – Table caption – “Reproductive accounts” – do you mean outputs?
Page 17 – Figure 3 is an almost exact duplicate of Figure 1. Perhaps combine the three Figures into a
single Figure with three panels, to save space? It seems confusing to label the male snake “father”
when we are discussing parthenogens! Surely it should be “putative father”, as in the Table?
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Warren Booth)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
With the evidence growing that facultative parthenogenesis is phylogenetically widespread in snakes
and occurs in the wild, exploring potential cases of facultative parthenogenesis in groups for which
data was previously lacking will augment our understanding of commonalities and variability across
the snake phylogeny. Here, the authors provide convincing evidence of facultative parthenogenesis in
the Elapidae, a group lacking such information. The data are robust and paint a picture comparable to
that previously reported by Booth & Schuett (2011, 2016), with parthenogenesis producing few male-
only offspring, exhibiting reduced viability in some instances, and excessive homozygosity. One point
that should be addressed is the health of the Taipan parthenogens and the live Death adders. Are they
3
still alive? How was sex confirmed? See Schuett et al. (1997) for evidence of misidentify the sex of a
parthenogen due to genital deformaties. Visualization of the gonads through surgery, as used in Booth
et al. 2011(a and b), or screening for sex chromosomes either through karyotyping of RADseq, is
advised. Additionally, I failed to find any information regarding the number of SNPs for each species.
Consider adding these to Table 2. I would like to see this addressed prior to publication, as it provides
more roust evidence of facultative parthenogenesis in snakes.
Minor comments
Pg 3, Ln 20 - Booth and Schuett (2015) should actually be 2016. (2016 - vol 118, pg172–186)
Pg 3 Ln 29 - Second generation parthenogenesis has not been reported in the Smalltooth Sawfish.
Fields et al report the presence of free-living facultative parthenogens. However, Booth et al. (2014)
(Biological Journal of the Linnean Society) suggest that second generation parthenogenesis is the likely
cause of the genetically identical Burmese pythons, originally reported by Groot et al. (2004) and
attributed to automixis or premeiotic doubling.
Booth, W., Schuett, G.W., Ridgway, A., Buxton, D.W., Castoe, T.A., Bastone, G., Bennett, C. &
McMahan, Wm. New insights on facultative parthenogenesis in pythons. Biological Journal of the
Linnean Society. 112, 461-468.
Pg 3 Ln 50 - Also see Reynolds et al. (2012) Journal of Heredity.
Reynolds R.G, Booth W, Schuett G.W, Fitzpatrick B.M, Burghardt G.M. Successive virgin births of
viable male progeny in a garter snake. Biological Journal of the Linnean Society. 107, 566-572.
Pg 3 Ln 52 - It is worth noting that the production of male-only or female-only parthenogens is a result
a different sex chromosome systems. Advanced snakes exhibiting ZW, and basal snakes appearing to
exhibit XY. See Gamble et al. (2017).
Gamble, T., Castoe, T.A., Nielsen, S.V., Banks, J.L., Card, D.C., Schield, D.R., Schuett, G.W. & Booth,
W. The Discovery of XY sex chromosomes in a Boa and python. Current Biology. 27, 2148-2153.
Pg 4 Ln 16 - Suggest minor revision to - " The reproductive accounts
resulting in parthenogens were atypical to our previous reproductive record for the species, and
followed characteristics outlined by Booth & Schuett (2011, 2016).
Pg 5, Ln 9 - Revise to " Female #1 and #2 were multi-generation captive bred Coastal Taipan and
raised at our facility, whereas female #3 was a Papuan Taipan wild collected as an adult from Saibai
Island in the Torres Strait.
Pg 5 Ln 31 - Revise to "Upon parturition neonate Death Adders were removed...."
Pg 5 Ln 33 - Revise to " The Papuan/Coastal Taipan eggs were removed from the mother’s enclosure
upon deposition and artificially..."
Pg 6 Ln 7 - Revise to " Uniquely barcoded adapters were then ligated to the DNA in 40 µL volumes,
consisting...
Pg 8 Ln 27 - I suggest revision to "Booth & Schuett (2011) documented long-term sperm storage of ~ 5
years followed by the production of viable offspring in an eastern diamondback rattlesnake, Crotalus
adamanteus, hence, it was necessary to exclude..."
References need to be thoroughly checked for consistency.
4
Ethics statement - Does the University of affiliation require protocol approval for tissue collection and
animal handling? If so, details of this this should be added.
Warren Booth, Ph.D
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171901)
10-Jan-2018
Dear Mr Allen
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-171901 entitled
"Molecular evidence for the first records of facultative parthenogenesis in elapid snakes." has been
accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with
the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received, including
the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail whether
informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all permissions,
licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as supplementary
information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data accessibility section should
state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section should also include details,
where possible of where to access other relevant research materials such as statistical tools, protocols,
software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in an external repository this section
should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI for all data from the article that has
been made publicly available. Data sets that have been deposited in an external repository and have a
DOI should also be appropriately cited in the manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify your
current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-171901
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no competing
interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions section
which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors should meet all of
the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or acquisition of data, or
analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it critically for important
intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
5
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence alignments,
participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out the statistical
analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study, coordinated the
study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We have
included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given heading is
not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state that it is not
relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit the
revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 19-Jan-2018). If you do not think you will
be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions". Under
"Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally
submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript and upload a new version
through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this to
document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the processing of the
revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the referees. We strongly
recommend uploading two versions of your revised manuscript:
1) Identifying all the changes that have been made (for instance, in coloured highlight, in bold text, or
tracked changes);
2) A 'clean' version of the new manuscript that incorporates the changes made, but does not highlight
them.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions) and
figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document";
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format should be
produced directly from original creation package), or original software format);
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please ensure
you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user account;
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your data
as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi within
your manuscript. Make sure it is clear in your data accessibility statement how the data can be
accessed;
6
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final form.
Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will be hosted
as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details where possible
(authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on the
online figshare repository (https://rs.figshare.com/). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so please
ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files on figshare
will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so that the
supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted as part
of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and accepted for
publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request
a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out more about the charges at
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please contact
openscience@royalsociety.org.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get in
touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_3
This manuscript documents facultative parthenogenesis in two species of elapid snakes. The analysis
appears to be well-done, and my only criticisms are (1) insufficient attention to detail in the text, with
too many typographical errors; and (2) there are no data from broods of these species produced NON-
parthenogentically, which would have been a better comparison than the current one (in which the
putative father, plus the mother, are the only sexually-produced individuals included).
Page 2 line 7 Abstract - is NOT yet known
Page 3 line 46 words are missing?
Page 4 line 40 – Slater not Slatter; and this reference is not listed in the Literature Cited
Page 5 line 10 – “bred raised”?
Page 13 – Table caption – “Reproductive accounts” – do you mean outputs?
7
Page 17 – Figure 3 is an almost exact duplicate of Figure 1. Perhaps combine the three Figures into a
single Figure with three panels, to save space? It seems confusing to label the male snake “father”
when we are discussing parthenogens! Surely it should be “putative father”, as in the Table?
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_4
With the evidence growing that facultative parthenogenesis is phylogenetically widespread in snakes
and occurs in the wild, exploring potential cases of facultative parthenogenesis in groups for which
data was previously lacking will augment our understanding of commonalities and variability across
the snake phylogeny. Here, the authors provide convincing evidence of facultative parthenogenesis in
the Elapidae, a group lacking such information. The data are robust and paint a picture comparable to
that previously reported by Booth & Schuett (2011, 2016), with parthenogenesis producing few male-
only offspring, exhibiting reduced viability in some instances, and excessive homozygosity. One point
that should be addressed is the health of the Taipan parthenogens and the live Death adders. Are they
still alive? How was sex confirmed? See Schuett et al. (1997) for evidence of misidentify the sex of a
parthenogen due to genital deformaties. Visualization of the gonads through surgery, as used in Booth
et al. 2011(a and b), or screening for sex chromosomes either through karyotyping of RADseq, is
advised. Additionally, I failed to find any information regarding the number of SNPs for each species.
Consider adding these to Table 2. I would like to see this addressed prior to publication, as it provides
more roust evidence of facultative parthenogenesis in snakes.
Minor comments
Pg 3, Ln 20 - Booth and Schuett (2015) should actually be 2016. (2016 - vol 118, pg172–186)
Pg 3 Ln 29 - Second generation parthenogenesis has not been reported in the Smalltooth Sawfish.
Fields et al report the presence of free-living facultative parthenogens. However, Booth et al. (2014)
(Biological Journal of the Linnean Society) suggest that second generation parthenogenesis is the likely
cause of the genetically identical Burmese pythons, originally reported by Groot et al. (2004) and
attributed to automixis or premeiotic doubling.
Booth, W., Schuett, G.W., Ridgway, A., Buxton, D.W., Castoe, T.A., Bastone, G., Bennett, C. &
McMahan, Wm. New insights on facultative parthenogenesis in pythons. Biological Journal of the
Linnean Society. 112, 461-468.
Pg 3 Ln 50 - Also see Reynolds et al. (2012) Journal of Heredity.
Reynolds R.G, Booth W, Schuett G.W, Fitzpatrick B.M, Burghardt G.M. Successive virgin births of
viable male progeny in a garter snake. Biological Journal of the Linnean Society. 107, 566-572.
Pg 3 Ln 52 - It is worth noting that the production of male-only or female-only parthenogens is a result
a different sex chromosome systems. Advanced snakes exhibiting ZW, and basal snakes appearing to
exhibit XY. See Gamble et al. (2017).
Gamble, T., Castoe, T.A., Nielsen, S.V., Banks, J.L., Card, D.C., Schield, D.R., Schuett, G.W. & Booth,
W. The Discovery of XY sex chromosomes in a Boa and python. Current Biology. 27, 2148-2153.
Pg 4 Ln 16 - Suggest minor revision to - " The reproductive accounts
resulting in parthenogens were atypical to our previous reproductive record for the species, and
followed characteristics outlined by Booth & Schuett (2011, 2016).
Pg 5, Ln 9 - Revise to " Female #1 and #2 were multi-generation captive bred Coastal Taipan and
8
raised at our facility, whereas female #3 was a Papuan Taipan wild collected as an adult from Saibai
Island in the Torres Strait.
Pg 5 Ln 31 - Revise to "Upon parturition neonate Death Adders were removed...."
Pg 5 Ln 33 - Revise to " The Papuan/Coastal Taipan eggs were removed from the mother’s enclosure
upon deposition and artificially..."
Pg 6 Ln 7 - Revise to " Uniquely barcoded adapters were then ligated to the DNA in 40 µL volumes,
consisting...
Pg 8 Ln 27 - I suggest revision to "Booth & Schuett (2011) documented long-term sperm storage of ~ 5
years followed by the production of viable offspring in an eastern diamondback rattlesnake, Crotalus
adamanteus, hence, it was necessary to exclude..."
References need to be thoroughly checked for consistency.
Ethics statement - Does the University of affiliation require protocol approval for tissue collection and
animal handling? If so, details of this this should be added.
Warren Booth, Ph.D
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-171901)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-171901.R1)
18-Jan-2018
Dear Mr Allen,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Molecular evidence for the first records of
facultative parthenogenesis in elapid snakes." is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open
Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial office
(openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if you are
likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight schedule, if
comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model (http://bit.ly/cpFAQ).
Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this will be the final version of the
paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers. As the issue version of your paper
will be the only version to be published I would advise you to check your proofs thoroughly as
changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
9
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with the
name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
Please note that Royal Society Open Science will introduce article processing charges for all new
submissions received from 1 January 2018. Charges will also apply to papers transferred to Royal
Society Open Science from other Royal Society Publishing journals, as well as papers submitted as part
of our collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry
(http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/chemistry). If your manuscript is submitted and accepted for
publication after 1 Jan 2018, you will be asked to pay the article processing charge, unless you request
a waiver and this is approved by Royal Society Publishing. You can find out more about the charges at
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/page/charges. Should you have any queries, please contact
openscience@royalsociety.org.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Kevin Padian (Subject Editor)
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
Molecular evidence for the first records of facultative parthenogenesis in elapid Style Definition: Hyperlink
snakes.
Allen L 1, 2, Sanders K 2, Thomson VA 2
1
Venom Supplies, P.O Box 547, Tanunda, South Australia 5352, Australia
²School of Biological Sciences, and the Environment Institute, The University of
Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia 5005, Australia
Corresponding author: L Allen: luke@venomsupplies.com
Abstract
Parthenogenesis is a form of asexual reproduction by which embryos develop from
unfertilized eggs. Parthenogenesis occurs in reptilereptiles, however is not yet known to
occur in the widespread elapid snakes (Elapidae), which include well-known taxa such as
cobras, mambas, taipans and sea snakes. Here, we describe the production of viable
parthenogens in two species of Australo-Papuan elapids with divergent reproductive modes:
the oviparous Coastal/Papuan Taipan (Oxyuranus scutellatus) and the viviparous Southern
Death Adder (Acanthophis antarcticus). Analyses of nuclear SNP data excluded paternity for
putative fathers and convincingly demonstrated asexual reproduction, thus representing the
first evidence of facultative parthenogenesis in Elapidae. Our finding has broad implications
for understanding the evolution of reproductive diversity in snakes, as well as managing the
conservation of genetic diversity in wild and captive populations.
Keywords: snake, elapidae, facultative parthenogenesis, reproduction, ddRAD-seq,
parentage
1. Introduction
Parthenogenesis is an asexual mode of reproduction by which embryos develop from
unfertilized eggs. The importance of this reproductive mode in vertebrates is now widely
recognized, with observations of parthenogenesis in several groupsclass, including reptiles
(Avise 2008). In snakes, there is evidence of two naturally occurring modes of asexual
reproduction. Obligatory parthenogenesis (OP) is found in exclusively parthenogenic species
such as the Brahminy Blind Snake (Indotyphlops braminus) which have all-female
populations (Cogger 2014). Facultative parthenogenesis (FP) appears to be more common
and is found in snakes that reproduce sexually as well as asexually and thus have male/female
populations (Booth & Schuett 2015). FP in vertebrates was considered anProduction of male-
only or female-only parthenogens is a result of different sex chromosome systems, with
advanced snakes exhibiting ZW (female heterogamety), and basal snakes appearing to exhibit
XY (male heterogamety) (Gamble et al. 2017). FP in vertebrates was considered a probable
artefact of captivity until evidence was reported from wild populations, including two species
of pitviper snakes (Viperidae) (Booth et al., 2012). A second generation of parthenogens has
also been confirmed in two vertebrates (wild Smalltooth Sawfish: Fields et al 2015; and
another vertebrate (captive White Spotted Bamboo shark: Straube at al 2015), but isthis has
yet to be reported in snakes.
The process of FP occurs via ‘automixis’ and is attributed to terminal fusion, whereby
the egg nucleus fuses with a second polar body and diploidy is restored (Lampert 2008).
However, Booth & Schuett (2015) note that without confirmation of heterozygosity, gamete
duplication in unfertilised eggs cannot be rejected as an alternative mechanism of
parthenogen production. Records of FP in ‘advanced’ snakes (caenophidians + colubroids)
indicate that fertility rates of litters/clutches containing parthenogens are low, often contain
stillborns, and only male parthenogenetic offspring are produced (Schuett et al, 1997; Booth
& Schuett, 2011, 2015). In contrast, basal alethinophidians (Boidae and Pythonidae) produce
only female parthenogens. In both cases, the progeny are half clones of the mother. Despite a
growing list of snake taxa for which we have genetic confirmation of FP (see Booth &
Schuett 2015) none have been reported from the widespread and species rich Elapidae, which
includes well-known medically significant species such as cobras, mambas, taipans and sea
snakes.
Here, we present genetic evidence of FP in two species of elapids with different
reproductive modes: the oviparous Papuan/Coastal Taipan (Oxyuranus scutellatus) and
viviparous Southern Death Adder (Acanthophis antarcticus). The reproductive accounts
resulting in parthenogens were noteworthy to us as they were inconsistent with atypical to our
previous reproductive record for the species (see supplementary information female snake
reproductive history). Greer (1997) reviewed data from reproductive accounts of the elapids
summarizing the southern death adder produces mean 17.6 (n = 80) neonates, and the taipan
produces mean 14 (n = 67). The taipan also has the ability to reproduce from stored sperm
within a reproductive season (Barnett 86, Banks 83b, Allen in press). Both species are large
bodied, highly venomous,followed characteristics outlined by Booth & Schuett (2011, 2016).
Females had not been in contact with males for extended periods, fertility rates of
clutches/litters were very low (Table 1), all resulting offspring were male and medically
significant.some stillborn/developmental abnormalities were evident.
The Coastal/Papuan Taipan occurs in sub-tropical to tropical coastal regions of
Australia and southern PNG. The Southern Death Adder occurs in temperate to tropical
regions of southern and eastern Australia. Both species are large bodied, highly venomous,
and medically significant. Reviewed data from published reproductive accounts of the elapids
shows the southern death adder produces mean 17.6 (n = 80) neonates and the taipan Formatted: Font: Italic
Formatted: Font: Italic
produces mean 14 (n = 67) (Greer, 1997). The taipan is also known to reproduce from stored Formatted: Font: Italic
Formatted: Font: Italic
sperm (Barnett 86, Banks 83b). Taipans from PNG were long considered a subspecies of the
coastal taipan after SlatterSlater (1956) but have since been shown to be synonymous
(Wüster et al, 2005). GivenAlthough now synonymous given the significance of geographic
relief between the two populations we refer to the ‘Papuan/Coastal Taipan (Oxyuranus Formatted: Font: Italic, English (United States)
scutellatus)’ throughout this manuscript. Formatted: English (United States)
Formatted: English (United States)
We used double-digest Restriction site Associated DNA (ddRAD-seq) nuclear SNP
markers to genotype reproductive females, their offspring and captive males that potentially
sired these offspring. Our findings represent the first molecular verification of FP in the
Elapidae and thus extend the current knowledge of FP in snakes.
2. Materials and methods Formatted: Justified
Formatted: Font: Not Bold
Snake maintenance and reproduction breeding
Female #1 wasand #2 were multi-generation captive Coastal Taipan bred raised at our
facility andwhereas female #23 was a Papuan Taipan wild collected as an adult from Saibai
Island in the Torres Strait. The female Southern Death Adder was wild collected from the
Eyre Peninsula, South Australia. Snakes were maintained individually with a thermostatically
controlled heat source which provides a temperature gradient allowing for thermoregulation.
Death Adders were exposed to a simulatedthermal seasonal shift where the heat source was
reduced gradually over the cooler months and slowly raised leading into warmer months.
simulating natural temperate environments. At appropriate times of year, male snakes were
introduced to female enclosures for 1-5 day periods for potential mating. Females were
noticeably gravid when they became larger in their posterior region, restless and refused food
late in gestation. The neonates of the
Upon parturition neonatal Death Adders were removed from the mothers and housed Formatted: Indent: First line: 0 pi
individually. The Papuan/Coastal Taipan eggs were removed from the mother’s enclosure
upon deposition and artificially incubated at 28–31ºC, resting on perlite substrate/water
media at 50:50 ratios, in containers with a glass lid rested on top. .
Formatted: Font: Bold
Genotyping and analyses
Tissue samples from adults and offspring were collected, and DNA was extracted
using a ‘salting-out’ method (Nicholls et al. 2000) and the extracts quantified using the
Quantus Fluorometer (Promega) as per manufacturer’s instructions. Double-digest
Restriction Associated DNA (ddRAD-seq) libraries were made in batches of 96 including a
library blank control following the protocol of Poland et al. (2012) with some modifications.
Two hundred nanograms of DNA was digested at 37°C for 2 hours using 8 U of PstI (six-
base recognition site, CTGCAG) and HpaII (four-base recognition site, CCGG) in 20 µL of
1x CutSmart Buffer (New England Biosciences [NEB]).
Uniquely barcoded adapters were then ligated to the DNA in 40 µL volumes, Formatted: Indent: First line: 3 pi
consisting of 20 µl of digested DNA, 200 U of T4 ligase, 0.1 <U+03C1>mol of forward (rare) and 15
<U+03C1>mol of reverse (common) adapters, and 1x T4 Buffer. The mixture was incubated at room
temperature for two hours, and then heat killed at 65°C for 20 minutes. Ligation products
were pooled into four pools of 24 samples each. Pooled libraries were purified using the
QIAquick PCR purification kit (Qiagen) and eluted in 120 µL of EB buffer (Qiagen).
PCR reactions to add the full-length Illumina adapters (Poland et al., 2012) were
performed in eight replicates per library pool in 30 µL volumes containing 10 µL of purified
library, 1x Hot Start Taq Master Mix (NEB), and 0.66 µM each of the forward and reverse
primers. The PCR conditions were: 95° C for 30 seconds, 16 cycles of 95° C for 30 seconds,
65° C for 20 seconds, and 68° C for 30 seconds, followed by 68° C for 5 minutes, and 25° C
for 1 minute. The eight replicates per library were re-pooled and purified as above, eluting in
30 µL of EB buffer (Qiagen). We then used a two-step double-SPRI protocol (Lennon et al.
2010) to pool all four of the libraries and to select for fragments between 100 and 300 bp
using a homemade SPRI bead mix (Rohland and Reich, 2012). Pooled libraries were
sequenced in 1x75 bp (single-end) high output reactions on the Illumina Next-seq at the
Australian Genome Research Facility, Adelaide.
Sequence Processing
We used STACKS v1.47 pipeline (Catchen et al., 2013, 2011) to process the sequence
data for each species separately, employing parameters previously identified as maximising
matching SNP calls and minimising mismatching SNP calls between sample replicates. Raw
sequencing reads were de-multiplexed using GBSX (Herten et al. 2015). These
demultiplexed reads were chastity filtered, had regions with quality < Q10 trimmed from
either end of the read, had cut-sites removed, had adapters removed (allowing for one
mismatch) and truncated to 57 bp using the BBTools modules (bbduk.sh and bbduk2.sh;
Bushnell 2015). Samples with more than 500,000 reads per sample were considered well
sequenced and continued in the analysis. RAD loci were identified for each sample using the
ustacks module, requiring a minimum stack read depth of five (m=5) and a maximum of one
nucleotide mismatches (M=1) between stacks at a locus. Loci with more than 50 stacks
(mls=50) and more reads than two standard deviations above the mean were filtered as they
may map to multiple points on the genome. A ‘deleveraging algorithm’ was used to try to
resolve over-merged loci. A catalogue of consensus loci among individuals for each species
was constructed with the cstacks module using the ustacks output files. Loci were recognized
as homologous across individuals if they mismatched at four or fewer bases (n=5). Alleles
were identified in each individual against this catalogue using the module sstacks. The
module populations, was used to remove potential homologs by filtering out loci with
heterozygosity > 0.8. Loci with a minimum minor allele frequency < 0.05 were filtered out,
as were loci not sequenced in all samples within a species and the resulting SNP datasets
were output to a PLINK format file (i.e. ped and map files).
The R package Rhh (Alho et al. 2010) was used to test three measures of individual
multilocus heterozygosity: internal relatedness (IR; Amos et al. 2001), standardized
heterozygosity (SH; Coltman et al. 1999), and homozygosity by loci (HL; Aparicio et al.
2006). Internal relatedness can be used to infer inbreeding from multilocus heterozygosity
data using allele frequencies, however it underestimates heterozygosity of individuals
carrying rare alleles. Therefore, homozygosity by loci (HL) is also used as it weighs the
contribution of each locus to the homozygosity index depending on their allelic variability.
Standardized heterozygosity takes into account that not all samples will be genotyped for all
of the same loci by ensuring that the heterozygosity of all individuals is measured on the
same scale. Individual heterozygosity (Hs) is calculated such that Hs = proportion of
heterozygous typed loci/mean heterozygosity of typed loci (Coltman et al. 1999).
Parthenogens are expected to have a positive IR values, low SH values, and high HL values
(Alho et al. 2010).
3. Results and discussion
Our study robustly demonstrates multiple cases of facultative parthenogenesis
resulting in viable male offspring in two species of elapids with different reproductive modes:
the oviparous Papuan/Coastal Taipan and the viviparous Southern Death Adder. All the
females in our study had reproduced sexually with males prior to producing the parthenogens
reported here. HenceSex of parthenogen offspring was determined to be male by way of
probing and manually everting the hemipenis. Booth & Schuett (2011) documented long-term
sperm storage of ~ 5 years followed by the production of viable offspring in an eastern
diamondback rattlesnake, (Crotalus adamanteus), hence, it was necessary to exclude the
possibility that offspring were produced using sperm stored from these previous breeding
events (i.e. eliminating all sampled males as sires was not sufficient evidence for FP).
Molecular analysis of the Papuan/Coastal Taipan and Southern Death Adder putative
parthenogen samples yielded genotypes that had high internal relatedness (> 0.152), i.e.
significantly greater than zero (Table 12 and Figures 1 & 21A & 1B), which is indicative of
parthenogenesis (Alho et al. 2010). The standardized heterozygosity was also low (0.302–
0.539) and homozygosity by loci was high (0.694–0.884) in the putative parthenogens, also
consistent with parthenogenesis (Table 12 and Figure 31C).
The clutches and litter of parthenogens reported here add to other documented
accounts of parthenogenetic reproduction in the caenophidians, which also yielded low
fertility rate (i.e. low fertile vs infertile clutch ratio) and only male offspring (Schuett et al.,
1997; Booth & Schuett 2011, 2015). yielding low fertility rates (i.e. low fertile vs infertile
clutch ratio) and phenotypically only males (Schuett et al., 1997; Booth & Schuett 2011,
2015). We were unable to confirm the sex of the parthenogens genetically as the structure and
content of the Z and W sex chromosomes are largely unknown from the few snake genomes
that exist, so we could not confirm the lack of female parthenogens by mapping the ddRAD-
seq data to the published snake genomes. Nor did we genotype enough confidently sexed
males and females to definitively identify sex-specific ddRAD markers (Gamble et al. 2014).
With regards to the health of the parthenogens, the litter of death adders included stillborn
offspring that exhibited post-cranial developmental abnormalities like those reported in the
checkered garter snake (Thamnophis marcianus) by Booth & Schuett (2015). The apparent
health of our parthenogens varies individually. All Papuan/Coastal Taipan parthenogens
remain alive with the oldest of which being ~ 3.5 years old and the two death adders failed to
thrive dying >2 months after birth. Two of the four Papuan/Coastal Taipans appear robust
and as normal sexually produced specimens would, with the other two displaying slight
physical abnormalities (Table 1). Irrespective of this all Papuan/Coastal Taipans appear to be
robust and developing normally.
Our findings represent the first evidence of FP in the Elapidae, which extends our
knowledge of FP in snakes. More targeted research is required to determine the prevalence of
this alternate reproductive mode in the elapids, particularly the taxonomic breadth and
ecological role of its occurrence in natural populations. Better understanding of the effects of
parthenogenetic reproduction on heterozygosity and fertility over multiple generations is also
needed to inform conservation of genetic diversity in wild and captive snake popplations.
populations.
Ethics
All actions involving animals in this study were undertaken under the requirements of the
Department of Environment, Water and Natural Resources and the institutional guidelines of
Venom Supplies.
Data accessibility
All data and supplementary information is accessible via this temporary reviewer file: Formatted: Indent: First line: 0 pi
http://datadryad.org/review?doi=doi:10.5061/dryad.dq40b
Authors’ contributions
All authors designed the study, interpreted the data, and contributed to and approved the final Formatted: Indent: First line: 0 pi
manuscript. LA collected and managed snakes and harvested the tissue samples, and VT
performed the lab work and analysis.
Competing interests
The authors have no competing interests.
Funding
Laboratory work was funded by Australian Research Council grants to Kate Sanders.
Acknowledgements
We thankwish to extend special thanks to Nathan Dunstan, (general manager), Brendan
Schembri and Patrick Taggart (keepers) of Venom Supplies for assistance with snake
maintenance and tissue collection.
References
Alho JS1, Välimäki K, Merilä J. (2010) Rhh: an R extension for estimating multilocus
heterozygosity and heterozygosity-heterozygosity correlation. Molecular Ecology Resources
10(4):, 720-–2. Formatted: Font: Bold
Avise, J. C 2008. Clonality: The Genetics, Ecology and Evolution of Sexual Abstinence in
Vertebrate Animals. 237 (Oxford University Press, 2008).
Barnett, B. (1986).. The Taipan (Oxyuranus scutellatus) in captivity. Thylacinus. 11(1):, 9-– Formatted: Font: Bold
19
Banks, C. 1983b. Breeding the Taipan Oxyuranus scutellatus at the Royal Melbourne Zoo. Formatted: Font: Italic
International Zoo Yearbook 23:, 159-–62. Formatted: Font: Bold
Booth W., Smith C., Eskridge P., Hoss S., Mandelson J., Schuett G. 2012. Facultative Formatted: Line spacing: Double
parthenogenesis discovered in wild vertebrates. Biology Letters 8:, 983–985. Formatted: Font: Bold
Booth W., Schuett G. 2011. Molecular genetic evidence foralternativefor alternative
reproductive strategies in North American pitvipers (Serpentes, Viperidae): long-term sperm
storage and facultative parthenogenesis. Biological Journal of the LinneanSocietyLinnean
Society 104:, 934–942. Formatted: Font: Bold
Booth W., Schuett, G. 2015. The emerging phylogenetic pattern of parthenogenesis in snakes.
Biological Journal of the Linnean Society. December 2015. 118, 172–186. Formatted: English (United States)
Formatted: English (Australia)
Bushnell B. (2015). BBMap. Available at: http://sourceforge.net/projects/bbmap/.
Catchen, J., Hohenlohe, P.A., Bassham, S., Amores, A. & Cresko, W.A. (2013). Stacks: An
analysis tool set for population genomics. Molecular Ecology 22, 3124–3140.
Catchen, J.M., Amores, A., Hohenlohe, P., Cresko, W. & Postlethwait, J.H., 2011. Stacks:
Building and genotyping loci de novo from short-read sequences. G3 Genes Genomes
Genetics 1, 171–182.
Formatted: Line spacing: Double
Cogger, H. 2014. Reptiles &B Amphibians of Australia, 7th ed. CSIRO, Australia.
Fields A., Feldheim K., Poulakis G., Chapman D. 2015. Facultative parthenogenesis in a
critically endangered wild vertebrate. Current Biology 25: R446–R447, 446–7. Formatted: Font: Bold, English (United States)
Formatted: English (United States)
Gamble T, Castoe TA, Nielsen SV, Banks JL, Card DC, Schield DR, Schuett GW & Booth
W. 2017 The Discovery of XY sex chromosomes in a Boa and python. Current Biology. 27,
2148–2153.
Gamble T & Zarkower D. 2014 Identification of sex-specific molecular markers using
restriction site-associated DNA sequencing. Molecular Ecology Resources 14, 902–13. Formatted: Font: Bold
Formatted: English (Australia)
Greer, A. 1997. The Biology and Evolution of Australian Snakes. Surrey Beatty & Sons,
NSW. Formatted: English (Australia)
Herten, K,oen and Hestand, Matthew S,. and Vermeesch, Joris R,. and & Van Houdt, Jeroen
KJ (2015) GBSX: a toolkit for experimental design and demultiplexing genotyping by
sequencing experiments BMC Bioinformatics 2015, 16:, 73 doi:10.1186/s12859-015-0514-3. Formatted: Font: Bold
Lennon, N.J., Lintner, R.E., Anderson, S., Alvarez, P., Barry, A., Brockman, W., Daza, R.,
Erlich, R.L., Giannoukos, G., Green, L., Hollinger, A., Hoover, C.A., Jaffe, D.B., Juhn, F.,
McCarthy, D., Perrin, D., Ponchner, K., Powers, T.L., Rizzolo, K., Robbins, D., Ryan, E.,
Russ, C., Sparrow, T., Stalker, J., Steelman, S., Weiand, M., Zimmer, A., Henn, M.R.,
Nusbaum, C. & Nicol, R. (2010). A scalable, fully automated process for construction of
sequence-ready barcoded libraries for 454. Genome Biology 11, R15.
Lampert K.. 2008. Facultative parthenogenesis in vertebrates:reproductive error or chance? Formatted: Line spacing: Double
Sexual Development2:Development. 2, 290–-301. Formatted: English (United States)
Formatted: English (United States)
Nicholls J. A., Double M. C., Rowell Rowell D. M., Magrath Magrath D. (2000) The
evolution of cooperative and pair breeding in thornbills Acanthiza (Pardalotidae). Journal of
Avian Biology 31, 165–176. (doi:10.1034/j.1600-048X.2000.310208.x)). Formatted: Font: Bold
Poland, J.A., Brown, P.J., Sorrells, M.E. & Jannink, J.-L. (2012). Development of high-
density genetic maps for barley and wheat using a novel two-enzyme genotyping-by-
sequencing approach. PLoS ONE 7, e32253. Formatted: Font: Bold
Rohland, N. & Reich, D. (2012). Cost-effective, high-throughput DNA sequencing libraries
for multiplexed target capture. Genome Research 22, 939–946 (doi: 10.1101/gr.128124.111.).
Formatted: Line spacing: Double
Schuett G., Fernandez P., Gergits W., Casna N., Chiszar D., Smith H., Mitton J., Mackessy
S., Odum R., Demlong M. 1997. Production of offspring in the absence of males: evidence
for facultative parthenogenesis in bisexual snakes. Herpetological Natural History 5:, 1-–10. Formatted: Font: Bold
Formatted: Line spacing: Double
Slater, K.R. 1956. On the New Guinea taipan. Memoirs of the National Museum of Victoria,
Melbourne 20:, 201-–205. Formatted: Font: Bold
Straube N., Lampert K., Geiger M., Weib J., Kirchhauser J. 2016. First record of second-
generation facultative parthenogenesis in a vertebrate species, the white spotted bamboo
shark Chiloscyllium plagiosum. Journal of Fish Biology (2016).88, 668–75. Formatted: English (United States)
Formatted: English (Australia)
Wüster, W., Dumbrell, A., Hay, C., Pook, C., Williams, D., Fry, B. (2005). Snakes across the Formatted: English (United States)
Formatted: Space After: 8 pt
Strait: trans-Torresian phylogeographic relationships in three genera of Australian snakes
(Serpentes: Elapidae: Acanthophis, Oxyuranus, and Pseudechis). Molecular Phylogenetics
and Evolution, 34, 1-–14. Formatted: English (United States)
Formatted: Font: Bold, English (United States)
Formatted: English (United States)
Formatted: English (United States)
Formatted: Space After: 8 pt, Line spacing: Double
Table 1.
Table 1. Reproductive output and health status of parthenogens from female Papuan/Coastal
Taipans (Oxyuranus scutellatus) and Southern Death Adder (Acanthophis antarcticus).
Species Individual Fertile Infertile Development Physical Formatted: Line spacing: single
Appearance Formatted Table
Coastal Taipan Mother #1 2 14 Both normal one parthenogen Formatted: Line spacing: single
(Oxyuranus appears normal,
scutellatus) the second having
malformed
scaleskeleton
Coastal Taipan Mother #2 1 7 Normal 1 deformed eye— Formatted: Line spacing: single
(Oxyuranus otherwise normal
scutellatus)
Papuan Taipan Mother #3 1 10 Normal Normal Formatted: Line spacing: single
(Oxyuranus
scutellatus)
Southern Mother #4 4 (2 live, 2 9 Slow, and Normal Formatted: Line spacing: single
Death Adder stillborn) died >2
(Acanthopsis months after
antarcticus) birth
Table 2. Estimates of parental and descendent similarity, using internal relatedness, Formatted: Line spacing: Double
standardized heterozygosity, and homozygosity by loci.
Species Individual Internal Standardised Homozygosity Formatted Table
Relatedness Heterozygosity by loci (HL)
(IR) (SH)
Coastal Taipan Mother #1 -0.299 1.628 0.516
(Oxyuranus Parthenogen 1-1 0.722* 0.323 0.882
scutellatus) Parthenogen 1-2 0.738* 0.302 0.884
Loci = 3715 Mother #2 -0.194 1.683 0.537
Parthenogen 2-1 0.752 0.319 0.883
Putative father -0.125 1.745 0.560
Papuan Taipan Mother #23 -0.575 1.207 0.389
(Oxyuranus Parthenogen 3-1 0.152 0.539 0.694
scutellatus) Putative father -0.138 1.254 0.442
Loci = 2462
Southern Mother #4 -0.792 1.806 0.187
Death Adder Parthenogen 4-1 0.630* 0.338 0.828
(Acanthopsis Parthenogen 4-2 0.605* 0.346 0.827
antarcticus) Parthenogen 4-3 0.618* 0.331 0.830
Loci = 1311 Parthenogen 4-4 0.609* 0.368 0.827
Genetic sibling 1 -0.290 1.288 0.440
Genetic sibling 2 -0.234 1.224 0.477
Genetic sibling 3 -0.360 1.372 0.404
Genetic sibling 4 -0.228 1.286 0.463
Putative father -0.452 1.641 0.360
Parthenogens are expected to have a positive internal relatedness (IR), * = p-value < 0.05 for Formatted: Line spacing: Double
t-test of IR values for the group of parthenogens (or genetic siblings) greater than 0.
Parthenogens are expected to have low standardized heterozygosity (SH) and high
homozygosity by loci (HL). All p-values have been corrected using Bonferroni corrections.
The Papuan Taipan dataset and the parthenogen 2-1 of the Coastal Taipan have been
excluded from all t-tests as there is only one parthenogen and t-tests require more than one
observation to be tested.
Figure 1. Plots showing relationships between relatedness and heterozygosity/homozygosity
measures. A) Relationship between internal relatedness and standardized heterozygosity. The
shape of the symbols represent the parent/offspring and the colour represents the taxa.
Figure 2.; B) Relationship between internal relatedness and homozygosity by loci. The shape
of the symbols represent the parent/offspring and the colour represents the taxa.
Figure 3.; C) Relationship between standardized heterozygosity and homozygosity by loci. Formatted: Line spacing: Double
The shape of the symbols represent the parent/offspring and the colour represents the taxa.
Society Open
