Workshop on reconstruction schemes for magnetic
resonance data: summary of findings and
recommendations
Esin Ozturk-Isik, Ian Marshall, Patryk Filipiak, Arnold J. V. Benjamin, Valia Guerra Ones,
Rafael Ortiz Ramón and Maria del C. Valdés Hernández
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 160731.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.160731
Review timeline
Original submission: 29 September 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 11 January 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 19 January 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-160731.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
No
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
This paper is a review of a workshop attended by the authors, hence the evaluation measure
based on the impact and novelty are not applicable to this submission.
For archival purpose, this submission is useful and I think it is worth publishing from RSOS.
Before acceptance, I require the authors to modify the manuscript slightly.
The manuscript introduces what is discussed in the workshop, but does not state what is
concluded and
what is the issues to be tackled in future clearly.
Based on the discussion in the workshop, what is the remaining problems in each of the
methodologies: namely, the compressed sensing, super resolution, and GPU-based
implementation in the field of MR image reconstruction and fast acquisition ?
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160731)
04-Jan-2017
Dear Dr Valdés Hernández
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-160731 entitled
"Workshop on Reconstruction Schemes for MR data: Summary of Findings and
Recommendations" has been accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science subject to
minor revision in accordance with the referee suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at
the end of this email.
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-160731
3
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 13-Jan-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
4
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of Miles Padgett
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
This paper is a review of a workshop attended by the authors, hence the evaluation measure
based on the impact and novelty are not applicable to this submission.
For archival purpose, this submission is useful and I think it is worth publishing from RSOS.
Before acceptance, I require the authors to modify the manuscript slightly.
The manuscript introduces what is discussed in the workshop, but does not state what is
concluded and
what is the issues to be tackled in future clearly.
Based on the discussion in the workshop, what is the remaining problems in each of the
methodologies: namely, the compressed sensing, super resolution, and GPU-based
implementation in the field of MR image reconstruction and fast acquisition ?
5
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-160731)
See Appendix A.
label_version_2
RSOS-160731.R1 (Revision)
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
All of my concerns are addressed, and now I think it is ready for acceptance.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-160731.R1)
19-Jan-2017
Dear Dr Valdés Hernández,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Workshop on Reconstruction Schemes
for MR data: Summary of Findings and Recommendations" is now accepted for publication in
Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
6
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
http://rsos.royalsocietypublishing.org/
Reviewer(s)' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
All of my concerns are addressed, and now I think it is ready for acceptance.
Appendix A
BRAIN RESEARCH IMAGING CENTRE
Neuroimaging Sciences
The University of Edinburgh
Western General Hospital
Crewe Road
Edinburgh EH4 2XU
Email: M.Valdes-Hernan@ed.ac.uk
http://www.bric.ed.ac.uk
Dear Professor Miles Padgett
Subject Editor Royal Society Open Science
Re: “Workshop on Reconstruction Schemes for MR data: Summary of Findings and Recommendations”
First of all thank you very much for allowing us the opportunity to resubmit and publish our work. We also sincerely
thank the Reviewer for his/her suggestions.
Please, find attached the revised version of the manuscript with the above title for consideration for publication in
Royal Society Open Science
I confirm that this version of the manuscript has also been read and approved by all authors.
We highlight in yellow our additions to the original manuscript, and respond to the specific points raised by the
Reviewer as follow:
Reviewer:
This paper is a review of a workshop attended by the authors, hence the evaluation measure based on the impact
and novelty are not applicable to this submission. For archival purpose, this submission is useful and I think it is
worth publishing from RSOS.
Before acceptance, I require the authors to modify the manuscript slightly.
The manuscript introduces what is discussed in the workshop, but does not state what is concluded and what are
the issues to be tackled in future clearly. Based on the discussion in the workshop, what is the remaining problems
in each of the methodologies: namely, the compressed sensing, super resolution, and GPU-based implementation
in the field of MR image reconstruction and fast acquisition?
Response:
Again, we thank the Reviewer for recognising the usefulness and value of our short communication.
Reconstruction of MR data through schemes including the use of sparse-coding, compressed-sensing and/or
super-resolution algorithms, is still an emerging field. Each oral presentation evaluated the shortcomings and
challenges found. The ones related to compressed sensing, for example, mentioned that “proper selection of k-
space sampling pattern, validating quality of the resultant images and optimization of regularization parameters for
the optimal solution of the inverse problem that would balance the fidelity to the undersampled raw data and
sparsity in the transform domain have been challenging” (first page of the main text, paragraph 3).
Now, we clarify when a possible solution was presented and discussed. For example, on page 2 of the main text,
the idea of applying the super-resolution method proposed by Valdés Hernández and Inamura, but implementing it
using convolutional neural networks instead of using a single-hidden-layer sigmoid function-based back-
propagated neural network. Solutions to the super-resolution methods based on sparse-coding are also mentioned
at the end of page 2 and beginning of page 3 of the main text: “… hence a number of numerical approaches were
proposed …. The straight-forward technique to alternately optimize the directories Dh and Dl while assuming that
the coefficients a are fixed and vice versa until the global optimum is eventually reached (8) was mentioned.
However, a variety of contemporary methods based on computational intelligence or machine learning to speed up
the optimization process(9) were also mentioned. An application of the algorithm proposed by Kato in(10) (e.g.
multi-frame case), other approaches using convolutional neural networks and contemporary evolutionary
algorithms were among the possible solutions presented.”
Director Professor JM Wardlaw
Personal Assistant: Ms K Shuler; Scientific Business Manager: Dr Duncan Martin; Administrative Assistant: Mrs M Henderson;
Superintendent Radiographer: Mrs E Sandeman; Senior Medical Physicist: Dr Mark Bastin
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336
The added final paragraph synthesises the conclusion and next steps agreed at the meeting:
“As the techniques presented by the different attending sites were complementary, it was suggested that each site
applies its technique to other types of data so as to allow comparability of the super-resolution and compressed-
sensing methods and results between research groups. The necessity of establishing a long-term inter-site
collaboration for this purpose was agreed. This will allow to identify the shortcomings of the current methodologies
and set up a joined strategy for the near future.”
We also added the links of all the materials presented and discussed at the workshop.
We hope we have addressed adequately the Reviewer’s concerns. We again thank the Reviewers for the valuable
observations that helped us to improve our work and we are looking forward to hearing your reply.
Sincerely yours,
Maria del C. Valdés Hernández
Lecturer in Image Analysis and Chair of MIUA 2017
on behalf of the authors.
Director Professor JM Wardlaw
Personal Assistant: Ms K Shuler; Scientific Business Manager: Dr Duncan Martin; Administrative Assistant: Mrs M Henderson;
Superintendent Radiographer: Mrs E Sandeman; Senior Medical Physicist: Dr Mark Bastin
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336
Society Open
