Enhanced hydrogen evolution reaction on hybrids of cobalt
phosphide and molybdenum phosphide
Si-Ling Fang, Tsu-Chin Chou, Satyanarayana Samireddi, Kuei-Hsien Chen, Li-Chyong
Chen and Wei-Fu Chen
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 161016.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.161016
Review timeline
Original submission: 8 December 2016 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 23 January 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 30 January 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-161016.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
No
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
No
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Reject
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The submitted manuscript reports the enhanced hydrogen evolution reaction on hybrids of cobalt
phosphide and molybdenum phosphide.As far as I know, many papers have been published on
bimetal alloys, and material design methodologies for optimizing the electronic structure and
electrochemical activity has been well investigated. However, in this article, the electrochemical
tests are not detailed, and the depth of mechanism analysis is also not enough. Therefore I think
this paper is not suitable for publishing in Royal Society Open Science in current form, the
numerous errors need be corrected.
1, On page 6, “Fig 4” should be replaced by “Figure 5” in “ The Tafel curves recorded on the
CoMoP catalysts as shown in Figure 4a...”,“Fig 4b shows the dependence of the obtained Tafel
slopes to the cobalt content...”and“The data in Figure 4b showed decreasing Tafel slopes ...”.
Besides, The Co0.5Mo0.5P catalyst annealed at 1000<U+2103> should be marked as Co0.5Mo0.5P-1000
rather than Co0.5Mo0.5P-650.What’s more, I even can’t find the graph of Figure 7a and Figure 7b
in the paper.The authors should thoroughly proof read their manuscript prior to submission.
2, Polarization curves of the MoP and CoP in Figure 1a and the standard XRD patterns of
CoMoP2 in Figure 2 should be given.
3, The fundamental test data should be enriched, such as the EDX spectrum,Transmission
Electron Microscopy,double layer capacitance measurements and I–t curve. In order to further
insights into the valence of transition metals at the CoMoP2 catalyst surface , XPS measurements
should be supplemented.
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Jun Yang)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Yes
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
See the attached file. (Appendix A.)
3
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161016)
05-Jan-2017
Dear Dr Chen:
Title: Enhanced Hydrogen Evolution Reaction on Hybrids of Cobalt Phosphide and Molybdenum
Phosphide
Manuscript ID: RSOS-161016
Thank you for your submission to Royal Society Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal
Society Open Science is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The editor assigned to your manuscript has now received comments from reviewers. We would
like you to revise your paper in accordance with the referee and Subject Editor suggestions which
can be found below (not including confidential reports to the Editor). Please note this decision
does not guarantee eventual acceptance.
Please submit your revised paper within three weeks (i.e. by the 28-Jan-2017). If we do not hear
from you within this time then it will be assumed that the paper has been withdrawn. In
exceptional circumstances, extensions may be possible if agreed with the Editorial Office in
advance. We do not allow multiple rounds of revision so we urge you to make every effort to
fully address all of the comments at this stage. If deemed necessary by the Editors, your
manuscript will be sent back to one or more of the original reviewers for assessment. If the
original reviewers are not available we may invite new reviewers.
To revise your manuscript, log into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions." Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." Your manuscript number has been
appended to denote a revision. Revise your manuscript and upload a new version through your
Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you must respond to the comments made by the
referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". Please use this to
document how you have responded to the comments, and the adjustments you have made. In
order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in
your response.
In addition to addressing all of the reviewers' and editor's comments please also ensure that your
revised manuscript contains the following sections as appropriate before the reference list. If any
of these sections do not apply, please include the heading and state that they are not applicable:
• Ethics statement
Please clarify whether you received ethical approval from a local ethics committee to carry out
your study. If so please include details of this, including the name of the committee that gave
consent in a Research Ethics section after your main text. Please also clarify whether you received
informed consent for the participants to participate in the study and state this in your Research
Ethics section.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the necessary licences and approvals from your institutional
animal ethics committee before conducting your research. Please provide details of these licences
and approvals in an Animal Ethics section after your main text.
*OR*
Please clarify whether you obtained the appropriate permissions and licences to conduct the
fieldwork detailed in your study. Please provide details of these in your methods section.
4
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that you make available the data and research materials
supporting the results in the article. Datasets should be deposited in an appropriate publicly
available repository and details of the associated accession number, link or DOI to the datasets
must be included in the Data Accessibility section of the article
(http://royalsocietypublishing.org/instructions-authors#question17). Reference(s) to datasets
should also be included in the reference list of the article with DOIs (where available).
Please include a Data Availability section after your main text stating where supporting data are
available from, or where they will be made available should your article be accepted for
publication.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-161016
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Yours sincerely,
Dr Siobhán Hackett
Publishing Editor
Royal Society of Chemistry
Email: chemistryopenscience@rsc.org
Tel: +44 (0) 1223 432114
On behalf of the Subject Editor Dr Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
**********************************************
RSC Associate Editor:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_3
The referees have both raised concerns over the detail included regarding the electrochemical
tests which must be addressed. Once these and the other minor issues detailed in the referee
reports have been corrected this manuscript could be acceptable for publication.
RSC Subject Editor:
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_4
Both referees raise a number of issues associated with the presentation of experimental details
and results. In particular there are concerns regarding the electrochemistry - how working
electrodes were prepared and what tests were undertaken to ensure validity of the results.
In an accompanying letter please itemise each point and give details of the steps taken and the
changes made to the manuscript in order to address the referees concerns.
**********************************************
5
Reviewers' Comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_5
The submitted manuscript reports the enhanced hydrogen evolution reaction on hybrids of cobalt
phosphide and molybdenum phosphide.As far as I know, many papers have been published on
bimetal alloys, and material design methodologies for optimizing the electronic structure and
electrochemical activity has been well investigated. However, in this article, the electrochemical
tests are not detailed, and the depth of mechanism analysis is also not enough. Therefore I think
this paper is not suitable for publishing in Royal Society Open Science in current form, the
numerous errors need be corrected.
1, On page 6, “Fig 4” should be replaced by “Figure 5” in “ The Tafel curves recorded on the
CoMoP catalysts as shown in Figure 4a...”,“Fig 4b shows the dependence of the obtained Tafel
slopes to the cobalt content...”and“The data in Figure 4b showed decreasing Tafel slopes ...”.
Besides, The Co0.5Mo0.5P catalyst annealed at 1000<U+2103> should be marked as Co0.5Mo0.5P-1000
rather than Co0.5Mo0.5P-650.What’s more, I even can’t find the graph of Figure 7a and Figure 7b
in the paper.The authors should thoroughly proof read their manuscript prior to submission.
2, Polarization curves of the MoP and CoP in Figure 1a and the standard XRD patterns of
CoMoP2 in Figure 2 should be given.
3, The fundamental test data should be enriched, such as the EDX spectrum,Transmission
Electron Microscopy,double layer capacitance measurements and I–t curve. In order to further
insights into the valence of transition metals at the CoMoP2 catalyst surface , XPS measurements
should be supplemented.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_6
See the attached file.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-161016)
See Appendix B.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-161016.R1)
30-Jan-2017
Dear Dr Chen:
Title: Enhanced Hydrogen Evolution Reaction on Hybrids of Cobalt Phosphide and Molybdenum
Phosphide
Manuscript ID: RSOS-161016.R1
It is a pleasure to accept your manuscript in its current form for publication in Royal Society
Open Science. The chemistry content of Royal Society Open Science is published in collaboration
with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
The comments of the reviewer(s) who reviewed your manuscript are included at the end of this
email.
6
Thank you for your fine contribution. On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science and
the Royal Society of Chemistry, I look forward to your continued contributions to the Journal.
Yours sincerely,
Siobhán Hackett, Publishing Editor
On behalf of the Subject Editor Dr Anthony Stace and the Associate Editor Professor Claire
Carmalt.
********
RSC Associate Editor
Comments to the Author:
label_comment_7
(There are no comments.)
*********
The manuscript by Fang et al. reported the synthesis of a series of CoP/MoP hybrids
with different Co/Mo ratio for the enhanced hydrogen evolution reaction. They
found the HER activity shows a volcano shape and reaches a maximum for Co/Mo = 1.
In addition, They uses XRD analyses to confirm the formation of a major ternary
interstitial hexagonal CoMoP2 crystal phase, which accounts for the enhancement of
the electrochemical activity. The results are impressive, and overall, the manuscript
was well written. Therefore, I recommend the acceptance of this study.
My minor concerns were copied below:
(1) For the CoP/MoP hybrids, the authors sometimes use Co0.5Mo0.5P, sometimes use
Co0.5Mo0.5P. Please unify them in the whole manuscript;
(2) Authors are suggested to refer to the home-style of RSC paper to prepare their
manuscript. There are a lot of errors in format, including the citations in the
manuscript and the final references;
(3) If CoMoP2 phase is the determining materials to enhance the activity of CoP/MoP
hybrids for HER, is it possible to prepare pure CoMoP2 phase or separate it from the
mixed products?
(4) In the absence of CoMoP2 phase, what is the mechanism for a physical mixture of
CoP and MoP with enhanced activity for HER?
(5) I may like to suggest the authors to add details in their electrochemical
measurements, for example, how to prepare working electrode? what is the amount
used in the tests?
Appendix B
Response to Referees’ Comments
We appreciate very much the reviewers’ efforts to improve our manuscript. We have incorporated almost all of
them in the revised manuscript and the Supporting Supplementary Materials.
Referee 1
1, On page 6, “Fig 4” should be replaced by “Figure 5” in “ The Tafel curves recorded on the CoMoP catalysts
as shown in Figure 4a...”,“Fig 4b shows the dependence of the obtained Tafel slopes to the cobalt
content...”and“The data in Figure 4b showed decreasing Tafel slopes ...”. Besides, The Co0.5Mo0.5P catalyst
annealed at 1000<U+2103> should be marked as Co0.5Mo0.5P-1000 rather than Co0.5Mo0.5P-650.What’s more, I even
can’t find the graph of Figure 7a and Figure 7b in the paper. The authors should thoroughly proof read their
manuscript prior to submission.
Answer:
The Referee’s comment is deeply appreciated. In page 6, the figure numbers regarding Tafel slopes have been
corrected to Figure 5. Figure 7a and 7b have been added in page 8.
2, Polarization curves of the MoP and CoP in Figure 1a and the standard XRD patterns of CoMoP2 in Figure 2
should be given.
Answer:
The polarization curves of MoP and CoP have been included in Figure S5 the Electronic Supplementary
Materials as shown below.
0 CoP
Current density ( mA cm )
-2
MoP
Mixture-1
-5
Mixture-2
Mixture-3
-10
-15
-20
-0.6 -0.5 -0.4 -0.3 -0.2 -0.1 0.0
Potential ( V v.s. Ag/AgCl)
Figure S5 Comparison of polarization curves of the CoP, MoP and three physical mixtures with CoP:MoP = 1:1 (weight ratio) in
hydrogen–purged 0.1 M HClO4.
The standard X-ray diffraction pattern from ICSD database of h-CoMoP2 phase has been added in Figure S1
in the Electronic Supplementary Materials. The discussion in page 5 line 4-7 has been modified as follows.
“These peaks were confirmed as hexagonal CoMoP2 structure (hereinafter h-CoMoP2 is referred to represent
this crystal phase in order to distinguish the difference from the hybrid composition Co0.5Mo0.5P) with a = 3.33
Å, c = 11.22 Å, and a space group P63/mmc (ICSD No: 624219, see Figure S1 in the Electronic Supplementary
Materials)”.
(014)
(010)
Exprimental
0.5 0.5
Co Mo P
(013)
Intensity
(012)
(011) (110)
(006)
CoMoP2
ICSD 624219
30 40 50 60
2<U+F071>
Figure S1 Comparison of XRD patterns between the Co0.5Mo0.5P hybrid and the ICSD h-CoMoP2 database (ICSD No. 624219).
3, The fundamental test data should be enriched, such as the EDX spectrum, Transmission Electron
Microscopy, and I–t curve. In order to further insights into the valence of transition metals at the CoMoP2
catalyst surface, XPS measurements should be supplemented.
Answer:
The XPS spectra in the Co, Mo and P region of the Co0.5Mo0.5P hybrid have been added in Figure S2 in the
Electronic Supplementary Materials, and the discussions as written below are added in page 4 and page 5 line 1-
5. The Co 2p spectrum (Figure S2a) showed two dominating peaks appeared at 777.0 eV and 791.8 eV
corresponding to the Co 2p3/2 and Co 2p1/2 signals, respectively. The minor broad peak at 780 eV indicates the
presence of surface oxidized Co species resulting from the contact with air. The Mo 3d spectrum as shown in
Figure S2b showed strong 3d5/2 peak at 227.8 eV and 3d3/2 peak at 231.1 eV. These peaks are assigned to zero
valence state metallic Mo which indicates no or very little oxidation occurs on the Mo site. In the P 2P XPS
spectrum shown in Figure S2c, the strong peak at 129.4 eV is assigned to negative charged (metal-Pd-)
phosphide. The minor peak at 133.4 eV is referred to the P-O species.
(a) Co 2p Co 2P3/2
(b) Mo 3d
Mo 3d5/2 metal-P
(c) P 2p
Mo 3d3/2
Intensity (a.u.) Intensity (a.u.)
Co 2P1/2 Co-O
Intensity (a.u.)
P-O
800 795 790 785 780 775 770 238 236 234 232 230 228 226 135 130 125
Binding Energy (eV) Binding Energy (eV) Binding Energy (eV)
Figure S2 XPS spectra of the Co0.5Mo0.5P hybrid in the (a) Co 2P, (b) Mo 3d and (c) P 2P regions.
A TEM image of Co0.5Mo0.5P catalyst has been added in Figure S3 in the Electronic Supplementary Materials.
The Co0.5Mo0.5P hybrid showed interconnected structure composed of large particles (0.3 – 0.6 <U+F06D>m) which is in
good agreement with the SEM result.
Figure S3. A TEM image of the Co0.5Mo0.5P hybrid.
EDX spectra and corresponding atomic ratios of the Co0.5Mo0.5P catalyst have been added in Figure S4 in the
Electronic Supplementary Materials. The EDX spectra collected by a TEM equipped with an EDX analyzer
showed signals from Co, Mo and P elements. The Cu signals resulted from the Cu grid. The atomic percentages
of Co, Mo and P elements obtained are 26.9, 24.2 and 48.9 %, respectively, which answers to the composition
of Co0.5Mo0.5P well. These statements have been added in page 5 line 15-20.
Figure S4 EDX spectrum of the Co0.5Mo0.5P hybrid collected by a HRTEM, and the elementary compositions are shown in the inset.
An I-t curve of the Co0.5Mo0.5P catalyst has been added in Figure S8 in Electronic Supplementary Materials.
The cathodic current density recorded for driving the HER at overpotential of 165 mV as a function of time is
plotted below. The current density slightly decreased about 5% after 6 h of electrolysis. These results implies
that the Co0.5Mo0.5P catalyst is a highly efficient and cathodically stable HER catalyst in the acidic
environment. The aforementioned has been added in page 8 line 4-7.
Current density (mA cm )
-2
12
10
8
6 overpotential = 165 mV
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
Time (hour)
Figure S8 Cathodic current density of the Co0.5Mo0.5P hybrid catalyst versus time at an overpotential of 165 mV for 6
hours.
Referee 2
(1) For the CoP/MoP hybrids, the authors sometimes use Co0.5Mo0.5P, sometimes use Co0.5Mo0.5P. Please unify
them in the whole manuscript;
Answer:
The formula Co<U+F06A>Mo<U+F074>P (ratio of Co to Mo is superscript) is used to represent the composition of the hybrids. To
prevent confusion between the Co0.5Mo0.5P hybrid and the crystal phase CoMoP2. We have defined “h-
CoMoP2” to represent the hexagonal CoMoP2 crystal phase. Corresponding description has been added in page
3 line 9 from the bottom “(hereinafter h-CoMoP2 is referred to represent this crystal phase in order to
distinguish the crystal phase from the hybrid composition Co0.5Mo0.5P)”. All “CoMoP2” terms have been
changed to “h-CoMoP2”.
(2) Authors are suggested to refer to the home-style of RSC paper to prepare their manuscript. There are a lot of
errors in format, including the citations in the manuscript and the final references;
Answer:
The manuscript was written based on the Royal Society Open Science’s template and the references were listed
using Royal Society Open Science’s style. Royal Society Open Science uses different manuscript and reference
styles from the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC).
(3) If CoMoP2 phase is the determining materials to enhance the activity of CoP/MoP hybrids for HER, is it
possible to prepare pure CoMoP2 phase or separate it from the mixed products?
Answer:
Through carefully modifying the ratio of precursors, reaction temperature, pressure or using different synthetic
methods, it should be possible (but not easy) to prepare pure CoMoP2 phase. We have tried to prepare it,
however, minor secondary phases still existed in the products. We are currently working on this issue. We hope
the reviewer can allow us not to add data from pure CoMoP2 phase at present, because it may take a long time
to achieve the pure crystal.
(4) In the absence of CoMoP2 phase, what is the mechanism for a physical mixture of CoP and MoP with
enhanced activity for HER?
Answer:
Polarization curves of the HER of physical mixtures of CoP/MoP powder have been supplemented in the Figure
S5 in the Electronic Supplementary Materials. The obtained polarization curves showed HER activity ranging
between CoP and MoP. This result indicates clearly that the physical mixture of CoP and MoP powder does not
enhance the HER activity, while the h-CoMoP2 crystal phase does. The aforementioned has been added in page
7, line 5 from the bottom in the manuscript.
0 CoP
Current density ( mA cm )
-2
MoP
Mixture-1
-5
Mixture-2
Mixture-3
-10
-15
-20
-0.6 -0.5 -0.4 -0.3 -0.2 -0.1 0.0
Potential ( V v.s. Ag/AgCl)
Figure S1 Comparison of polarization curves of the CoP, MoP and three physical mixtures with CoP:MoP = 1:1 (weight ratio) in
hydrogen–purged 0.1 M HClO4.
(5) I may like to suggest the authors to add details in their electrochemical measurements, for example, how to
prepare working electrode? what is the amount used in the tests
Answer:
The electrodes for the electrochemical measurements were fabricated as follows. Catalyst ink was prepared
by mixing catalyst powder with milli-Q water solution (1 mL for 10 mg of electrocatalyst). 5 % Nafion
dispersion (DuPont) was added (50 mg solid Nafion for 100 mg of catalyst) to the catalyst slurry. Catalyst
coating on glassy carbon electrode with 0.196 cm2 active area was fabricated by drop-casting the catalyst ink on
with a micropipette. The catalyst loading was 0.4 mg catalyst cm-2. The electrode was then dried under vacuum
at room temperature. The electrolytes for electrochemical measurements were prepared with perchloric acid
(Aldrich) and Milli-Q water (Millipore). Pt foil (purity 99.999%) was purchased from Aldrich. All the
electrochemical measurements were performed in 0.1 M HClO4 (aq) electrolyte, which was deaerated with
hydrogen gas before use. A platinum wire, and a Ag/AgCl reference electrode (3M KCl) were used as the
counter electrode and reference electrode, respectively. All potentials, E, are quoted with respect to reversible
hydrogen electrode (RHE).
The aforementioned has been added in the Experimental Section in Page 2.
Society Open
