Graphic kinematics, visual virtual work and elastographics
Allan McRobie, Marina Konstantatou, Georgios Athanasopoulos and Laura Hannigan
Article citation details
R. Soc. open sci. 4: 170202.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsos.170202
Review timeline
Original submission: 3 March 2017 Note: Reports are unedited and appear as
Revised submission: 25 April 2017 submitted by the referee. The review history
Final acceptance: 25 April 2017 appears in chronological order.
Review History
label_version_1
RSOS-170202.R0 (Original submission)
label_author_1
Review form: Reviewer 1 (Chris Williams)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
© 2017 The Authors. Published by the Royal Society under the terms of the Creative Commons
Attribution License http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, which permits unrestricted use,
provided the original author and source are credited
2
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_1
Accept as is
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_1
The paper presents a fascinating combination of graphic statics and kinematics linked together
via virtual work. There is no doubt that some of the concepts are difficult to grasp, but there is no
obvious way in which the explanation can be simplified. The references are very full and
guidance is given as to how they can be used to better understand the current paper. The
diagrams are complex, but again there is no obvious way in which they can be simplified and the
captions explain the diagrams without having to search through the text.
There is a typographical mistake in the last line of the first paragraph of section 3, where there is
an F missing after the equals sign. Personally I would write 'virtual work' with small V and W,
but I don't feel that strongly about it.
Chris Williams, Department of Architecture & Civil Engineering, University of Bath and
Chalmers University, Sweden
label_author_2
Review form: Reviewer 2 (Philippe Block)
Is the manuscript scientifically sound in its present form?
Yes
Are the interpretations and conclusions justified by the results?
Yes
Is the language acceptable?
Yes
Is it clear how to access all supporting data?
Not Applicable
Do you have any ethical concerns with this paper?
No
Have you any concerns about statistical analyses in this paper?
No
Recommendation?
label_recommendation_2
Accept with minor revision (please list in comments)
Comments to the Author(s)
label_comment_2
Easy to follow and understand, as the steps are described in a procedural manner and
represented visually quite well. Some suggestions for improvements below.
***
General comment on figures
· It may be useful for the clarity of the diagrams, to use consistent color schemes. For example,
while the color scheme introduced in Figure 3 is clear, it is not used consistently throughout the
rest of the paper, as red/yellow are used arbitrarily to merely distinguish different elements in
3
the diagrams. For example, figures 14 and 17 are the same deformed displacement diagrams, and
yet use completely different color schemes.
Page 2
· With regards to graphic statics, “Minkowski” diagram needs more citation: most notably,
work on “unified diagrams” by Zanni and Pennock (2009) and work on stress fields and relation
to graphic statics by many authors.
Page 5 - Figure 3
· It may be helpful to use a zoom-in of the same example from Figure 1, instead of using an
arbitrary example.
Page 6 - Figure 4
· For clarity, consider using colors to differentiate external/internal VW in Maxwell-Willot and
tension/compression in Maxwell-Minkowski (for example, yellow and red in author’s previous
publications).
Page 12 - Figure 12
· External loads are not shown in the form diagram
· Figure 12c: Since A is a pinned support and does/can not move, it would make more sense to
show displacements relative to force polygon
for A. As drawn, it looks as if the sliding down of block E is causing A and C to spread apart.
Page 13 - Figure 14
· May be helpful to use a different <U+03B3> and ß such that the force polygon at each of the nodes is
a bit larger.
Page 15 - Section 9
· How does one slide the force polyhedra during the “sliding block mechanism” analysis? Or
how can you determine that there is no sliding block mechanism?
· Sliding around blocks while maintaining contact faces is not a trivial computational
procedure, especially for a complicated example like the Jessen Icosahedral tensegrity example in
Figure 19.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170202)
18-Apr-2017
Dear Mr McRobie
On behalf of the Editors, I am pleased to inform you that your Manuscript RSOS-170202 entitled
"Graphic Kinematics, Visual Virtual Work and Elastographics" has been accepted for publication
in Royal Society Open Science subject to minor revision in accordance with the referee
suggestions. Please find the referees' comments at the end of this email.
4
The reviewers and handling editors have recommended publication, but also suggest some minor
revisions to your manuscript. Therefore, I invite you to respond to the comments and revise your
manuscript.
• Ethics statement
If your study uses humans or animals please include details of the ethical approval received,
including the name of the committee that granted approval. For human studies please also detail
whether informed consent was obtained. For field studies on animals please include details of all
permissions, licences and/or approvals granted to carry out the fieldwork.
• Data accessibility
It is a condition of publication that all supporting data are made available either as
supplementary information or preferably in a suitable permanent repository. The data
accessibility section should state where the article's supporting data can be accessed. This section
should also include details, where possible of where to access other relevant research materials
such as statistical tools, protocols, software etc can be accessed. If the data has been deposited in
an external repository this section should list the database, accession number and link to the DOI
for all data from the article that has been made publicly available. Data sets that have been
deposited in an external repository and have a DOI should also be appropriately cited in the
manuscript and included in the reference list.
If you wish to submit your supporting data or code to Dryad (http://datadryad.org/), or modify
your current submission to dryad, please use the following link:
http://datadryad.org/submit?journalID=RSOS&manu=RSOS-170202
• Competing interests
Please declare any financial or non-financial competing interests, or state that you have no
competing interests.
• Authors’ contributions
All submissions, other than those with a single author, must include an Authors’ Contributions
section which individually lists the specific contribution of each author. The list of Authors
should meet all of the following criteria; 1) substantial contributions to conception and design, or
acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data; 2) drafting the article or revising it
critically for important intellectual content; and 3) final approval of the version to be published.
All contributors who do not meet all of these criteria should be included in the
acknowledgements.
We suggest the following format:
AB carried out the molecular lab work, participated in data analysis, carried out sequence
alignments, participated in the design of the study and drafted the manuscript; CD carried out
the statistical analyses; EF collected field data; GH conceived of the study, designed the study,
coordinated the study and helped draft the manuscript. All authors gave final approval for
publication.
• Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed to the study but did not meet the authorship
criteria.
• Funding statement
Please list the source of funding for each author.
Please note that we cannot publish your manuscript without these end statements included. We
have included a screenshot example of the end statements for reference. If you feel that a given
5
heading is not relevant to your paper, please nevertheless include the heading and explicitly state
that it is not relevant to your work.
Because the schedule for publication is very tight, it is a condition of publication that you submit
the revised version of your manuscript within 7 days (i.e. by the 27-Apr-2017). If you do not think
you will be able to meet this date please let me know immediately.
To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/rsos and enter your
Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with
Decisions". Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision." You will be unable to make your
revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript. Instead, revise your manuscript
and upload a new version through your Author Centre.
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by
the referees and upload a file "Response to Referees" in "Section 6 - File Upload". You can use this
to document any changes you make to the original manuscript. In order to expedite the
processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the
referees.
When uploading your revised files please make sure that you have:
1) A text file of the manuscript (tex, txt, rtf, docx or doc), references, tables (including captions)
and figure captions. Do not upload a PDF as your "Main Document".
2) A separate electronic file of each figure (EPS or print-quality PDF preferred (either format
should be produced directly from original creation package), or original software format)
3) Included a 100 word media summary of your paper when requested at submission. Please
ensure you have entered correct contact details (email, institution and telephone) in your user
account
4) Included the raw data to support the claims made in your paper. You can either include your
data as electronic supplementary material or upload to a repository and include the relevant doi
within your manuscript
5) All supplementary materials accompanying an accepted article will be treated as in their final
form. Note that the Royal Society will neither edit nor typeset supplementary material and it will
be hosted as provided. Please ensure that the supplementary material includes the paper details
where possible (authors, article title, journal name).
Supplementary files will be published alongside the paper on the journal website and posted on
the online figshare repository (https://figshare.com). The heading and legend provided for each
supplementary file during the submission process will be used to create the figshare page, so
please ensure these are accurate and informative so that your files can be found in searches. Files
on figshare will be made available approximately one week before the accompanying article so
that the supplementary material can be attributed a unique DOI.
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Royal Society Open Science and I look
forward to receiving your revision. If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to get
in touch.
Kind regards,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
on behalf of R. Kerry Rowe
Subject Editor, Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
6
Reviewer comments to Author:
Reviewer: 1
Comments to the Author(s)
The paper presents a fascinating combination of graphic statics and kinematics linked together
via virtual work. There is no doubt that some of the concepts are difficult to grasp, but there is no
obvious way in which the explanation can be simplified. The references are very full and
guidance is given as to how they can be used to better understand the current paper. The
diagrams are complex, but again there is no obvious way in which they can be simplified and the
captions explain the diagrams without having to search through the text.
There is a typographical mistake in the last line of the first paragraph of section 3, where there is
an F missing after the equals sign. Personally I would write 'virtual work' with small V and W,
but I don't feel that strongly about it.
Chris Williams, Department of Architecture & Civil Engineering, University of Bath and
Chalmers University, Sweden
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Easy to follow and understand, as the steps are described in a procedural manner and
represented visually quite well. Some suggestions for improvements below.
***
General comment on figures
· It may be useful for the clarity of the diagrams, to use consistent color schemes. For example,
while the color scheme introduced in Figure 3 is clear, it is not used consistently throughout the
rest of the paper, as red/yellow are used arbitrarily to merely distinguish different elements in
the diagrams. For example, figures 14 and 17 are the same deformed displacement diagrams, and
yet use completely different color schemes.
Page 2
· With regards to graphic statics, “Minkowski” diagram needs more citation: most notably,
work on “unified diagrams” by Zanni and Pennock (2009) and work on stress fields and relation
to graphic statics by many authors.
Page 5 - Figure 3
· It may be helpful to use a zoom-in of the same example from Figure 1, instead of using an
arbitrary example.
Page 6 - Figure 4
· For clarity, consider using colors to differentiate external/internal VW in Maxwell-Willot
and tension/compression in Maxwell-Minkowski (for example, yellow and red in author’s
previous publications).
Page 12 - Figure 12
7
· External loads are not shown in the form diagram
· Figure 12c: Since A is a pinned support and does/can not move, it would make more sense
to show displacements relative to force polygon
for A. As drawn, it looks as if the sliding down of block E is causing A and C to spread apart.
Page 13 - Figure 14
· May be helpful to use a different <U+03B3> and ß such that the force polygon at each of the nodes is
a bit larger.
Page 15 - Section 9
· How does one slide the force polyhedra during the “sliding block mechanism” analysis? Or
how can you determine that there is no sliding block mechanism?
· Sliding around blocks while maintaining contact faces is not a trivial computational
procedure, especially for a complicated example like the Jessen Icosahedral tensegrity example in
Figure 19.
Author's Response to Decision Letter for (RSOS-170202)
See Appendix A.
label_end_comment
Decision letter (RSOS-170202.R1)
25-Apr-2017
Dear Mr McRobie,
I am pleased to inform you that your manuscript entitled "Graphic Kinematics, Visual Virtual
Work and Elastographics" is now accepted for publication in Royal Society Open Science.
You can expect to receive a proof of your article in the near future. Please contact the editorial
office (openscience_proofs@royalsociety.org and openscience@royalsociety.org) to let us know if
you are likely to be away from e-mail contact. Due to rapid publication and an extremely tight
schedule, if comments are not received, your paper may experience a delay in publication.
Royal Society Open Science operates under a continuous publication model
(http://bit.ly/cpFAQ). Your article will be published straight into the next open issue and this
will be the final version of the paper. As such, it can be cited immediately by other researchers.
As the issue version of your paper will be the only version to be published I would advise you to
check your proofs thoroughly as changes cannot be made once the paper is published.
In order to raise the profile of your paper once it is published, we can send through a PDF of your
paper to selected colleagues. If you wish to take advantage of this, please reply to this email with
the name and email addresses of up to 10 people who you feel would wish to read your article.
8
On behalf of the Editors of Royal Society Open Science, we look forward to your continued
contributions to the Journal.
Best wishes,
Alice Power
Editorial Coordinator
Royal Society Open Science
openscience@royalsociety.org
Appendix A
25-Apr-2017
Response to Reviewers
Manuscript RSOS-170202: "Graphic Kinematics, Visual Virtual Work and Elastographics"
Reviewer: 1 Comments to the Author(s)
The paper presents a fascinating combination of graphic statics and kinematics linked together via
virtual work. There is no doubt that some of the concepts are difficult to grasp, but there is no obvious
way in which the explanation can be simplified. The references are very full and guidance is given as to
how they can be used to better understand the current paper. The diagrams are complex, but again
there is no obvious way in which they can be simplified and the captions explain the diagrams without
having to search through the text.
There is a typographical mistake in the last line of the first paragraph of section 3, where there is an F
missing after the equals sign. Personally I would write 'virtual work' with small V and W, but I don't feel
that strongly about it.
Chris Williams, Department of Architecture & Civil Engineering, University of Bath and Chalmers
University, Sweden
Response: The authors are grateful for the comments and the time spent in reviewing the manuscript.
The typographical error (first paragraph, Section 3) has now been corrected. The capitalisation VW has
been retained - the lead author so often uses the abbreviation VW when teaching that the use of
capitals seems natural.
Reviewer: 2
Comments to the Author(s)
Easy to follow and understand, as the steps are described in a procedural manner and represented
visually quite well. Some suggestions for improvements below.
Response: The authors are grateful for the comments and the time spent in reviewing the manuscript.
Comment: General comment on figures
It may be useful for the clarity of the diagrams, to use consistent color schemes. For example,
while the color scheme introduced in Figure 3 is clear, it is not used consistently throughout the rest
of the paper, as red/yellow are used arbitrarily to merely distinguish different elements in the
diagrams. For example, figures 14 and 17 are the same deformed displacement diagrams, and yet use
completely different color schemes.
Response: This is an interesting and constructive comment. The authors agree that more color can
improve the clarity, and Fig 4 has now been coloured and the colours of Fig 3 have been changed.
However, achieving consistency is not straightforward. Fig 3 colours the form and force polygons, and
elsewhere it is the VW parallelograms that need emphasis. Similarly Fig 4 wishes to contrast the
Internal/External equality compared to the Tension/Compression load path equality, yet the Internal
contains both tensions and compressions and the External is neither. We hope the colourings adopted
in the final version are clear local to each figure.
Comment: Page 2 With regards to graphic statics, “Minkowski” diagram needs more citation: most
notably, work on “unified diagrams” by Zanni and Pennock (2009) and work on stress fields and
relation to graphic statics by many authors.
Response: The authors are particularly grateful for the pointer to the work of Zanni and Pennock. It
was published in a journal on Machine Theory, and was thus completely unknown to the authors (who
are structural engineers). It is clearly highly relevant, and it completely predates McRobie’s paper on
Minkowski sums. The reference has been added, and credit given. A reference has also been added to
the main text on stress fields (Muttoni et al.), as stress fields are indeed related, as the reviewer
correctly points out.
Comment: Page 5 - Figure 3. It may be helpful to use a zoom-in of the same example from Figure 1,
instead of using an arbitrary example.
Response: This is an interesting comment. However, the authors feel that the concept of
parallelograms of Virtual Work sitting between form and force polygons is sufficiently fundamental
that there is a danger of confusing matters by introducing it via an example. We hope that this is
acceptable. In light of earlier comments on colouring, the colours have now been changed to be more
consistent. That is, the earlier red/yellow colouring was not consistent with any tension/compression
demarcation, and so has been changed.
Comment: Page 6 - Figure 4. For clarity, consider using colors to differentiate external/internal VW in
Maxwell-Willot and tension/compression in Maxwell-Minkowski (for example, yellow and red in
author’s previous publications).
Response: The diagram has now been coloured. Yellow/red for tension/compression has been
adopted. See also earlier response regarding colouring.
Comment: Page 12 - Figure 12 External loads are not shown in the form diagram
Response: These have now been added.
Comment: Figure 12c: Since A is a pinned support and does/can not move, it would make more sense
to show displacements relative to force polygon for A. As drawn, it looks as if the sliding down of
block E is causing A and C to spread apart.
Response: We have changed this as suggested. It now clearly shows A unmoving. It could however be
argued that the arrows for B,C,E,F are not as clear as they were in the original, more symmetric
representation.
Comment: Page 13 - Figure 14 May be helpful to use a different <U+03B3> and ß such that the force
polygon at each of the nodes is a bit larger.
Response: One advantage of the Maxwell-Williot diagram is that a weighting biased towards the form
diagram means that the resulting picture looks like the structure. This is also true for deformed
Maxwell-Williot diagrams, as here. If we change the weights to make the force polygons clearer then
the form diagram is less clear. We have thus chosen to retain the proportions, but make the whole
figure larger.
Comment: Page 15 - Section 9. How does one slide the force polyhedra during the “sliding block
mechanism” analysis? Or how can you determine that there is no sliding block mechanism? Sliding
around blocks while maintaining contact faces is not a trivial computational procedure, especially for a
complicated example like the Jessen Icosahedral tensegrity example in Figure 19.
Response: The reviewer is correct – the sliding of blocks can be nontrivial. Interestingly, the reviewer’s
earlier pointer to work of the Zanni and Bennock may open possibilities for applying machine theory
to block kinematics. We leave this for future work.
Society Open
